# Part 26 — Forestry Operations and Similar Activities

Definitions 26.1 
 &nbsp; In this Part: "active falling area" means the area within a 2 tree length radius of where a faller or mechanized falling equipment is located and equipped so as to be able to fall timber; "backspar" means a tree rigged up at the back end of a work area to support a skyline; "bucker" means a worker who cuts up trees on the ground; "bunk" means a horizontal bolster that is fitted with a stake at each end; "butt rigging" means a system of swivels, shackles, links and hooks which connect the haulback and mainlines and to which chokers are fastened; "cable logging" means a yarding system employing winches, blocks and cables; "dangerous tree" means a tree that is a hazard to a worker due to (a) its location or lean, (b) its physical damage, (c) overhead conditions, (d) deterioration of its limbs, stem or root system, or (e) any combination of the conditions in paragraphs (a) to (d); "faller" means a worker who manually falls trees; "federal cargo securement standard" has the same meaning as "Standard" in section 35.02 (1) [adoption of National Safety Code for Motor Carriers Standard 10 — Cargo Securement] of the Motor Vehicle Act Regulations; "forestry operation" means a workplace where work is done in relation to silviculture or harvesting trees, including constructing the means of access and transporting the harvested trees to a facility where they are processed or from which they are exported; "haulback" means the cable used to outhaul the rigging or grapple when yarding; "high lead" means a cable logging system in which running line lead blocks are placed on a lift tree or on a mobile yarder to provide lift to the logs during yarding; "highway" has the same meaning as in the Motor Vehicle Act ; "holding wood" means the hinge of wood left uncut between the back of the undercut and the backcut; "intermediate spar" means a tree used to elevate a skyline between the yarder and the backspar in a multispan skyline system; "landing" means the area to which logs are (a) yarded or skidded for sorting, and (b) prepared for transportation; "lift tree" means a tree rigged to support running lines; "log load" means a load of one or more logs on a log transporter; "log stack" means a log load that is a separate pile of logs of at least 2 layers lying lengthwise or crosswise on a log transporter; "log transporter" means any of the following that is used on roads to transport logs, other than within a fully enclosed container: (a) a truck; (b) a trailer; (c) a truck and trailer assembly; "mainline" means the cable used to yard logs; "mobile equipment" means mobile equipment as defined in section&nbsp;16.1; "mobile yarder" means a logging machine mounted on wheels, tracks or skids, incorporating a vertical or inclined spar, tower or boom used in a skyline, slackline, modified slackline, high lead, or grapple cable logging system; "molly hogan" means a single strand of wire rope rolled into a circle with 6 complete wraps that may be used as a temporary method of connecting the eye splices of 2 lines of the same size or in pin shackles to replace the cotter pin; "multiple-employer workplace" has the same meaning as in section 13 of the Workers Compensation Act ; "prime contractor" has the same meaning as in section 13 of the Workers Compensation Act ; "qualified arborist" means a person who (a) has knowledge, through training or a combination of education and training, of (i) tree-climbing activities, and (ii) tree-climbing systems, (b) has experience (i) engaging in tree-climbing activities, and (ii) using tree-climbing systems, and (c) has, as appropriate to the work being done, knowledge, through training or a combination of education and training, of and experience (i) pruning, repairing or maintaining trees, or (ii) taking down trees in pieces or taking down parts of trees; "sapling" means an immature tree that ordinarily would not be harvested; "skidding" means moving logs by the use of mobile equipment that travels while the logs are being dragged; "skyline" means a cable on a yarder that supplies lift for yarding lines, blocks, rigging, carriage and logs; "slackline" means a skyline that can be tensioned at the operator's discretion; "spar" means a tree or mast on which rigging is hung for a cable logging system; "strawline" means a small diameter cable used in rigging up or moving larger cables or blocks; "tiedown" means chain, wire rope, synthetic rope or webbing, together with a tensioning device, that is (a) placed over a log load on a log transporter, and (b) attached to one or more anchor points on the log transporter; "trainee arborist" means a person undergoing on-the-job training under the direct supervision of a qualified arborist; "transportation route" , in relation to a log transporter, means a route taken by the log transporter from the place where it is first loaded with logs to the place where its load of logs is fully off-loaded; "tree-climbing activities" means any of the following work activities: (a) climbing a tree for the purpose of a work activity described in paragraph (b); (b) doing any of the following while in a tree: (i) pruning, repairing or maintaining a tree; (ii) taking down a tree in pieces; (iii) taking down parts of a tree; "tree-climbing system" means the equipment a person relies on for support and security while engaging in tree-climbing activities, including a harness, climbing lines and lanyards; "turn" means one or more logs that are skidded or yarded to the landing at one time; "wrapper" means chain, wire rope, synthetic rope or webbing, together with a tensioning device, that is (a) wrapped securely around a log load on a log transporter, and (b) not attached to the log transporter; "yarding" means moving logs by the use of mobile or other equipment that does not travel while the logs are being moved. [am. B.C. Regs. 20/2008, App. A, s. 2; 9/2017, App. N, s. 1; 279/2019, App. D, s. 5; 207/2021, App. B, s. 1; 222/2021, App. F, s. 1.] General Requirements Prime contractor requirements for forestry operations 26.1.1 &nbsp; If the owner of a forestry operation enters into an agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of the definition of "prime contractor" in section 13 of the Act designating a person to be the prime contractor for a workplace, the owner must ensure that (a) the person designated (i) is qualified to be the prime contractor in respect of that workplace, and (ii) has the authority necessary to fulfill the responsibilities of prime contractor under the Act, including, without limitation, authority over any employer, worker or other person who may be carrying out the work of the owner at the workplace, and (b) not more than one person holds the designation of prime contractor for that workplace at any given time. [en. B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 279/2019, App. D, s. 6.] Multiple-employer workplace 26.1.2 
 &nbsp; (1) This section applies to a multiple-employer workplace in a forestry operation. (2) Before starting any activity that is likely to create a hazard for an independent operator or a worker of another employer, the person intending to carry out the activity must notify the prime contractor. [en. B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 3.] Planning and conducting a forestry operation 26.2 
 &nbsp; (1) The owner of a forestry operation must ensure that all activities of the forestry operation are both planned and conducted in a manner consistent with this Regulation and with safe work practices acceptable to the Board. (2) Every person who has knowledge and control of any particular activity in a forestry operation must ensure that the activity is both planned and conducted in a manner consistent with this Regulation and with safe work practices acceptable to the Board. (3) The planning required under this section must (a) include identification of any work activities or conditions at the workplace where there is a known or reasonably foreseeable risk to workers, (b) be completed before work commences on the relevant activity, and (c) be documented at the time of planning. (4) If, after any planning referred to in subsection (3), there is a change in the workplace circumstances, including the work activities and the conditions of the workplace, and the change poses or creates a known or reasonably foreseeable risk to workers that was not previously identified, then (a) the plan must be amended to identify and address the risk and provide for the health and safety of the workers at the workplace, and (b) the amendment must be documented as soon as is practicable. [en. B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 4.] Planning and conducting activities involving trees other than a forestry operation or tree-climbing activities 26.2.1 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must ensure that work activities at the workplace that involve pruning, repairing, maintaining, bucking or manually falling trees, taking down trees in pieces or taking down parts of trees are (a) planned in accordance with this section, and (b) conducted in accordance with the plan. (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to (a) work activities carried out in a forestry operation, or (b) tree-climbing activities. (3) The planning required under this section must (a) identify the hazards and risks associated with the work activities to be performed, (b) identify how the hazards and risks will be eliminated or minimized to the lowest level practicable, (c) be completed and communicated to each worker involved in the work activities before the work activities commence, and (d) be documented at the time of planning. (4) If, after planning takes place under subsection (3), there is a change in the workplace circumstances, including the work activities and the conditions of the workplace, and the change poses or creates a known or reasonably foreseeable hazard or risk to workers that was not previously identified, the employer must ensure that (a) the plan is amended to identify (i) the hazard or risk, and (ii) how the hazard or risk will be eliminated or minimized to the lowest level practicable, (b) the amendment to the plan is communicated to each affected worker before the amendment is implemented, and (c) the amendment to the plan is documented as soon as practicable. [en. B.C. Reg. 207/2021, App. B, s. 2.] Training 26.3 
 &nbsp; (1) Every worker in a forestry operation must receive the training necessary to safely perform the worker's duties. (2) The requirements of subsection (1) are deemed to have been met with regard to duties of a type performed before April 15, 1998 if (a) the worker performed the duties regularly for at least 2&nbsp;years prior to that date, and (b) the duties performed were documented by April&nbsp;15,&nbsp;1999. (3) Records must be kept, in a form and manner acceptable to the Board, of the training provided in subsection (1). (4) On request of a worker, a copy of the records under subsection (3) that pertain to the worker must be provided to the worker. [am. B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 5.] Forestry operation fire fighting 26.3.1 
 &nbsp; (1) Workers in a forestry operation who fight a forest fire must be (a) trained in their fire fighting duties in accordance with a standard acceptable to the Board, and (b) physically capable of performing their duties safely and effectively. (2) Training must be provided annually to every worker who is required to fight forest fires and records must be kept of the training provided to each worker. (3) Except under emergency conditions, a worker who is fighting a forest fire must wear (a) long pants and a long sleeved shirt made of cotton, wool, denim or flame resistant material, or (b) other protective clothing appropriate to the hazards to which the worker may be exposed. [en. B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 6.] Notice of project 26.4 
 &nbsp; (1) This section (a) applies to a workplace in a forestry operation where the work is expected to last more than 5 working days, but (b) does not apply where the work is limited to (i) timber cruising, (ii) forestry road or cutblock layout, or (iii) surveying. (2) Not more than 30 days and not fewer than 24 hours before the start of work at a workplace, the owner for whom the work is being done must ensure that a notice of project is provided to the nearest Board office. (3) If it is necessary to do immediate work in order to prevent injury to workers or damage to property, work on the project may commence immediately, and the owner for whom the work is being done must ensure that a notice of project is provided to the nearest Board office at the earliest possible time. (4) A notice of project under subsection (2) or (3) must be provided in a form and manner acceptable to the Board. [en. B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 7.] Initial safety meeting 26.5 
 &nbsp; (1) In this section, "new work location" means a work location in a forestry operation where the crew of workers has not previously worked. (2) Before a crew of workers starts work in a new work location, a crew safety meeting must be held to inform the workers of any known or reasonably foreseeable risks in that location and the actions to be taken to eliminate or minimize those risks. (3) If a worker did not attend the crew safety meeting under subsection (2) for a new work location, before starting work in that location, the worker must receive a safety orientation that covers any known or reasonably foreseeable risks in that location and the actions taken to eliminate or minimize those risks. (4) Records must be kept of the crew safety meetings and safety orientations provided under subsections (2) and (3). [en. B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 7.] Repealed 26.6 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 20/2008, App. A, s. 7.] Highly visible clothing 26.7 
 &nbsp; (1) Highly visible outer clothing that meets the requirements of