# Part 11 — Fall Protection

Definitions 11.1 
 &nbsp; In this Part: "anchor" means a component or subsystem of a fall protection system used to connect other parts of a fall protection system to an anchorage, and includes an anchorage connector; "anchorage" means a secure connection point for a fall protection system; "fall arrest system" means a system that will stop a worker's fall before the worker hits the surface below; "fall protection system" means (a) a fall restraint system, (b) a fall arrest system, or (c) work procedures that are acceptable to the Board and minimize the risk of injury to a worker from a fall; "fall restraint system" means a system to prevent a worker from falling from a work position, or from travelling to an unguarded edge from which the worker could fall; "full body harness" means a body support device consisting of connected straps designed to distribute the force resulting from a fall over at least the thigh, shoulders and pelvis, with provision for attaching a lanyard, lifeline or other components; "horizontal lifeline system" means a system composed of a synthetic or wire rope, installed horizontally between 2 anchors, to which a worker attaches a personal fall protection system; "lanyard" means a flexible line of webbing, or synthetic or wire rope, that is used to secure a safety belt or full body harness to a lifeline or anchor; "lifeline" means a synthetic or wire rope, rigged from one or more anchors, to which a worker's lanyard or other part of a personal fall protection system is attached; "personal fall protection system" means a worker's fall restraint system or fall arrest system composed of (a) a safety belt or full body harness, and (b) a lanyard, lifeline and any other connecting equipment individual to the worker that is used to secure the worker to an anchor, an anchorage or a horizontal lifeline system; "safety belt" means a body support device consisting of a strap with a means for securing it about the waist and attaching it to other components. [am. B.C. Regs. 420/2004, s. 2; 404/2012, App. A, s. 1.] Obligation to use fall protection 11.2 
 &nbsp; (1) Unless elsewhere provided for in this Regulation, an employer must ensure that a fall protection system is used when work is being done at a place (a) from which a fall of 3&nbsp;m (10&nbsp;ft) or more may occur, or (b) where a fall from a height of less than 3&nbsp;m involves a risk of injury greater than the risk of injury from the impact on a flat surface. (2) The employer must ensure that guardrails meeting the requirements of Part 4 (General Conditions) or other similar means of fall restraint are used when practicable. (3) If subsection (2) is not practicable, the employer must ensure that another fall restraint system is used. (4) If subsection (3) is not practicable, the employer must ensure that one of the following is used: (a) a fall arrest system; (b) a rope access system that meets the requirements of Part 34. (5) If subsection (4) is not practicable, or will result in a hazard greater than if a fall arrest system or a rope access system was not used, the employer must ensure that work procedures are followed that are acceptable to the Board and minimize the risk of injury to a worker from a fall. (6) Before a worker is allowed into an area where a risk of falling exists, the employer must ensure that the worker is instructed in the fall protection system for the area and the procedures to be followed. (7) A worker must use the fall protection system provided by the employer. [am. B.C. Regs. 420/2004, s. 4; 199/2014, App. K, s. 1.] Fall protection plan 11.3 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must have a written fall protection plan for a workplace if (a) work is being done at a location where workers are not protected by permanent guardrails, and from which a fall of 7.5&nbsp;m (25&nbsp;ft) or more may occur, or (b) section 11.2 (5) applies. (c) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 5 (a) (iii).] (2) The fall protection plan must be available at the workplace before work with a risk of falling begins. (3) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 5 (b).] [am. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 5.] Selection of harness or belt 11.4 
 &nbsp; (1) A worker must wear a full body harness or other harness acceptable to the Board when using a personal fall protection system for fall arrest. (2) A worker must wear a safety belt, a full body harness or other harness acceptable to the Board when using a personal fall protection system for fall restraint. [en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Equipment standards 11.5 
 &nbsp; Equipment used for a fall protection system must (a) consist of compatible and suitable components, (b) be sufficient to support the fall restraint or arrest forces, and (c) meet, and be used in accordance with, an applicable CSA or ANSI standard in effect when the equipment was manufactured, subject to any modification or upgrading considered necessary by the Board. [en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Anchors 11.6 
 &nbsp; (1) In a temporary fall restraint system, an anchor for a personal fall protection system must have an ultimate load capacity in any direction in which a load may be applied of at least (a) 3.5 kN (800 lbs), or (b) four times the weight of the worker to be connected to the system. (2) Each personal fall protection system that is connected to an anchor must be secured to an independent attachment point. (3) In a temporary fall arrest system, an anchor for a personal fall protection system must have an ultimate load capacity in any direction required to resist a fall of at least (a) 22 kN (5&nbsp;000 lbs), or (b) two times the maximum arrest force. (4) A permanent anchor for a personal fall protection system must have an ultimate load capacity in any direction required to resist a fall of at least 22 kN (5&nbsp;000 lbs). [en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 19/2006, s. 3; 404/2012, App. A, s. 2.] Temporary horizontal lifelines 11.7 
 &nbsp; A temporary horizontal lifeline system may be used if the system is (a) manufactured for commercial distribution and installed and used in accordance with the written instructions from the manufacturer or authorized agent, and the instructions are readily available in the workplace, (b) installed and used in accordance with written instructions certified by a professional engineer, and the instructions are readily available in the workplace, or (c) designed, installed and used in a manner acceptable to the Board. [en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6; am. B.C. Reg. 19/2006, s. 4.] Certification by engineer 11.8 
 &nbsp; The following types of equipment and systems, and their installation, must be certified by a professional engineer: (a) permanent anchors; (b) anchors with multiple attachment points; (c) permanent horizontal lifeline systems; (d) support structures for safety nets. [en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Inspection and maintenance 11.9 
 &nbsp; Equipment used in a fall protection system must be (a) inspected by a qualified person before use on each workshift, (b) kept free from substances and conditions that could contribute to its deterioration, and (c) maintained in good working order. [en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Removal from service 11.10 
 &nbsp; (0.1) If, at any time, a permanent anchor does not meet the requirements of section 11.5 (c), the anchor must not be used until it has been inspected and recertified, by a professional engineer, as meeting the requirements of section 11.5 (c). (1) After a fall protection system has arrested the fall of a worker, it must (a) be removed from service, and (b) not be returned to service until it has been inspected and recertified as safe for use by the manufacturer or its authorized agent, or by a professional engineer. (2) Subject to subsection (3), subsection (1) (b) does not apply to a personal fall protection system designed and intended for reuse by a performer in the entertainment industry for conducting a planned fall sequence. (3) The following conditions must be met before a personal fall protection system described in subsection (2) will be exempt from subsection (1) (b): (a) the system must be designed and used in accordance with a standard acceptable to the Board; (b) each use of the system must be carried out in accordance with the plan for the conduct of the fall; (c) the peak arrest forces generated in the system during each use must be at or below both the planned limits and the maximum forces allowed for the system; (d) after each use of the system no part of the system, including the anchorage, may be reused until a qualified person has inspected it and determined it is in serviceable condition and safe for reuse. [en. B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6; am. B.C. Regs. 320/2007, App. C; 404/2012, App. A, s. 3.] Repealed 11.11- 11.40 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 420/2004, s. 6.] Part 12 — Tools, Machinery and Equipment Definitions 12.1 
 &nbsp; In this Part: "guard" means a type of safeguard consisting of a physical barrier which prevents a worker from reaching over, under, around or through the barrier to a moving part or point of operation; "jumbo" means a mobile platform having one or more levels which provides work areas for persons, machines, tools, drills or other materials; "point of operation" means the danger area in a machine where a part is being formed or work is being done; "power transmission part" means any moving part of a machine that transfers power from a power source to a point of operation; "safeguard" means the use of a guard, a safety device, a shield, an awareness barrier, warning signs, or other appropriate means, either singly or in combination, to provide effective protection to workers from hazards; "safety device" means a type of safeguard consisting of an arrangement of operating controls, an active or passive physical restraint, an interlock, or a presence sensing device which ensures that a worker cannot access or be in a hazardous area while a machine is operating; "shield" means a type of safeguard consisting of a physical cover or barrier which restricts but does not prevent access to a hazardous moving part or a point of operation. General Requirements Safeguarding requirement 12.2 
 &nbsp; Unless elsewhere provided for in this Occupational Health and Safety Regulation, the employer must ensure that machinery and equipment is fitted with adequate safeguards which (a) protect a worker from contact with hazardous power transmission parts, (b) ensure that a worker cannot access a hazardous point of operation, and (c) safely contain any material ejected by the work process which could be hazardous to a worker. Standards 12.3 
 &nbsp; The application, design, construction and use of safeguards, including an opening in a guard and the reach distance to a hazardous part, must meet the requirements of CSA Standard Z432-94, Safeguarding of Machinery . [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 15.] Effectiveness of safeguards 12.4 
 &nbsp; A safeguard must be capable of effectively performing its intended function. Fixed guards 12.5 
 &nbsp; A fixed guard must not be modified to be readily removable without the use of tools. Lubrication 12.6 
 &nbsp; A guard must be designed, where practicable, to allow lubrication and routine maintenance without removal of the guard. Repealed 12.7 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 16.] Repealed 12.8 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 7.] Repealed 12.9 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 13.] Identifying unsafe equipment 12.10 
 &nbsp; An unsafe tool, machine or piece of equipment must be removed from service and identified in a manner which will ensure it is not inadvertently returned to service until it has been made safe for use. Operating controls 12.11 
 &nbsp; (1) Powered equipment other than portable powered tools or mobile equipment must have (a) starting and stopping controls located within easy reach of the operator, (b) controls and switches clearly identified to indicate the functions they serve, (c) controls positioned, designed or shielded as necessary to prevent inadvertent activation, (d) if two-hand controls are installed, controls designed to require concurrent use of both hands to operate the equipment, and to require both controls to be released before another machine cycle can be initiated, and (e) control systems meeting the requirements of this Regulation. (2) Portable powered tools and mobile equipment must have operating controls conforming to an appropriate standard acceptable to the Board. (3) A remote control device that operates mobile equipment must be equipped with a fail safe, or stop, mechanism that becomes operational if the remote control device fails. [am. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. D, s. 5.] Machinery location 12.12 
 &nbsp; A machine must be located or safeguarded so that operation of the machine will not endanger workers using normal passage routes about the workplace or operating an adjacent machine. Marking physical hazards 12.13 
 &nbsp; A physical hazard must be marked in a manner that clearly identifies the hazard to the affected workers. Identification of piping 12.14 
 &nbsp; (1) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 8.] (2) A piping system containing substances other than hazardous products must be identified in a manner known to the affected workers. (3) The identification markings on a piping system must be maintained in a legible condition. [am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. D, s. 8; 30/2015, s. 34.] Restraining devices 12.15 
 &nbsp; Effective means of restraint must be used (a) on a connection of a hose or a pipe if inadvertent disconnection could be dangerous to a worker, (b) if unplanned movement of an object or component could endanger a worker, or (c) to secure an object from falling and endangering a worker. Guarding Mechanical Power Transmission Parts Rotating hazards 12.16 
 &nbsp; Rotating parts, such as friction drives, shafts, couplings and collars, set screws and bolts, keys and keyways, and projecting shaft ends, exposed to contact by workers must be guarded. Gears and sprockets 12.17 
 &nbsp; (1) Every gear and chain sprocket must be completely enclosed, or if complete enclosure is impracticable, must have band-type guards with flanges extending below the root of the teeth. (2) If there is a hazard from rotating spokes, the spokes must be guarded on the sides accessible to workers. Safeguards for objects or materials 12.17.1 
 &nbsp; (1) If a log loader or a rail car loader is mounted on rails, tracks or a fixed structure, the loader must not be used by an operator until (a) a qualified person has completed a written risk assessment of any hazards created by falling, flying or intruding objects or materials that may be present while the loader is being used, and (b) suitable protective structures, including cabs, windows, screens, grills, shields, deflectors, guards or structures, have been installed on the loader that are designed or approved by the manufacturer of the loader or by a professional engineer to (i) eliminate, or reduce to the greatest extent possible, the risks identified in the risk assessment referred to in paragraph (a), and (ii) provide an adequate view for the operator to safely use the machine. (2) A person must not remain in a cab of a loader that is mounted on rails, tracks or a fixed structure while loads are elevated over the cab unless that cab is protected by an adequate overhead guard. [en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. D, s. 6.] Reciprocating machinery 12.18 
 &nbsp; A crank, connecting rod, tail rod, extension piston rod or other reciprocating or oscillating part exposed to contact by workers must be guarded. Drive belts 12.19 
 &nbsp; A power transmission belt, rope or chain must be guarded to protect workers who would be endangered in the event of its failure. Reaching up 12.20 
 &nbsp; (1) The in-running nip point of a power transmission belt, rope or chain, and any portion of a flywheel or pulley located within 2.5&nbsp;m (8&nbsp;ft) above a floor, walkway or platform must be guarded to prevent contact by workers. (2) An installation of the type covered by subsection (1) in place before January 1, 1999, which has unguarded parts more than 2.1&nbsp;m (7&nbsp;ft) but less than 2.5&nbsp;m (8&nbsp;ft) above the floor, walkway or platform may have those portions remain unguarded unless the work process presents an undue risk to workers if those portions remain unguarded, or until such time as the installation is substantially overhauled or renovated. Flywheels and pulleys 12.21 
 &nbsp; (1) A pit for a flywheel or pulley must have curbs or toeboards around the upper edge of the pit. (2) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 14.] (3) A flywheel or pulley which is defective or has been exposed to excessive heat must be removed from service and must not be returned to service until it has been repaired according to the manufacturer's recommendations, or certified safe for use by a professional engineer. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 14.] Conveyors Standards 12.22 
 &nbsp; Unless otherwise permitted by this Regulation, a conveyor must meet the requirements of ANSI Standard ANSI/ASME B20.1-1993, Safety Standards for Conveyors and Related Equipment . [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Belt-type conveyors 12.23 
 &nbsp; A belt conveyor must have accessible nip points of spools and pulleys guarded to prevent contact by a worker. Screw-type conveyors 12.24 
 &nbsp; (1) The moving parts of a screw-type conveyor must be guarded from contact by a worker. (2) Each guard on a screw-type conveyor must be secured by fasteners requiring a tool for removal. (3) The openings in mesh and grid guards must meet the requirements of Appendix A of CSA Standard Z432-94, Safeguarding of Machinery . [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Feed points 12.25 
 &nbsp; If the feed point for a conveyor cannot be guarded because of the work process, any workers required to be in the area must have and use suitable devices and tools which prevent the worker from contacting moving parts of the conveyor system. Repealed 12.26 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 9.] Falling materials 12.27 
 &nbsp; A conveyor must have guards or sideboards to prevent material from falling from the conveyor into areas occupied by workers if the falling material presents a hazard of impact injury or burn. Emergency stopping devices 12.28 
 &nbsp; (1) A conveyor must have an emergency stopping system unless worker access to the conveyor is prevented by guarding. (2) The conveyor emergency stopping system must be designed and installed so that the system will activate as a worker falls onto the conveyor, or if a fallen worker on the conveyor moves an arm or leg off to one side of the conveyor. (3) If a conveyor emergency stopping system uses a pull wire, the system must activate by a pull of the wire in any direction, or by a slack cable condition. (4) The conveyor emergency stopping system must be designed and installed so that after an emergency stop, manual resetting is required before the conveyor can be restarted. (5) A conveyor must not be restarted after an emergency stop until inspection has determined it can be operated safely. Power Presses, Brake Presses and Shears Standards 12.29 
 &nbsp; Point of operation safeguarding, and the design, construction and reliability of operating controls of a power press, brake press, ironworker or shear must meet the requirements of the following applicable standard: (a) CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z142-M90, Code for Punch Press and Brake Press Operation: Health, Safety, and Guarding Requirements; (b) ANSI Standard B11.4-1993, American National Standard for Machine Tools — Shears — Safety Requirements for Construction, Care, and Use; (c) ANSI Standard B11.5-1988(R1994), American National Standard for Machine Tools — Ironworkers — Safety Requirements for Construction, Care, and Use. (d) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 17.] [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 17.] Point of operation safeguarding 12.30 
 &nbsp; (1) The point of operation of a power press, brake press or shear must be safeguarded to prevent injury to the operator or any other worker. (2) A hand feeding or extraction tool must not be used as a substitute for point of operation safeguarding. (3) A guillotine or alligator shear must have a guard or other device which protects the operator from flying particles or material emanating from the shears. (4) The point of operation of a manually powered press, shear or cutter must be effectively guarded. Exception for custom work 12.31 
 &nbsp; The safeguarding for the point of operation of a brake press may be removed if custom or different bends are being done with each cycle of the machine, provided that safe work procedures are followed, and safeguarding is replaced upon completion of such custom work. Supervisory control 12.32 
 &nbsp; If a power press or brake press is being used in a production mode the keys for all control selector switches must remain under a supervisor's control. Repealed 12.33 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 10.] Feed-rolls and Metal-forming Rolls Feed-rolls 12.34 
 &nbsp; Feed-rolls must have a guard or safety device to prevent the operator from contacting any in-running nip points. Guard design 12.35 
 &nbsp; A feed-roll guard must be effective for the material thickness being processed, and the clearance between the guard and the material passing through the feed-rolls must not exceed 6 mm (1/4 in). Metal-forming rolls 12.36 
 &nbsp; If the work process on metal-forming rolls precludes the use of guards, an emergency stopping system must be installed across the machine, and also across the rear (offside) of the machine if a worker is exposed to the hazard on that side, and the emergency stopping system must activate automatically when contacted. Machine Tools Splash guards and shields 12.37 
 &nbsp; Cutting or cooling fluids, metal chips, swarf or turnings from machine tool work must be contained. Lathe chucks 12.38 
 &nbsp; Dogs that extend beyond the circumference of a lathe chuck must be safeguarded from contact by the operator. Restriction on hand polishing 12.39 
 &nbsp; Lathe stock must be polished with tools designed for this purpose, and the use of hand held strips of abrasive cloth is prohibited. Stock projection 12.40 
 &nbsp; Safeguards must be provided to prevent a worker from contacting stock projecting from a machine tool. Shapers/planers 12.41 
 &nbsp; A shaper or planer bed opening must be covered or safeguarded to eliminate shearing hazards. Carriage travel 12.42 
 &nbsp; Safeguards must be installed at the farthest points of travel of the carriage or table of a shaper, planer, surface grinder or similar equipment to protect workers against contact with moving parts. Vertical boring mills 12.43 
 &nbsp; The rim of the revolving table of a vertical boring mill must be safeguarded to prevent contact by workers. Abrasive Equipment Standards 12.44 
 &nbsp; An abrasive wheel must be guarded, used and maintained to meet the requirements of ANSI Standard B7.1-1988, The Use, Care and Protection of Abrasive Wheels . [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Protective hood 12.45 
 &nbsp; (1) An abrasive wheel must have a protective hood that will contain fragments of the wheel should it break apart while turning. (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to (a) an abrasive wheel used for internal work, (b) a mounted wheel of any shape or type which is 50 mm (2 in) or less in diameter, (c) a threaded-hole, cone or plug type of wheel if the nature of the work provides protection, or (d) a portable grinder when it is being used for grinding root passes in welded pipe, provided it has a protective hood covering at least 120° of the wheel periphery and the operator wears adequate eye and face protection. Speed of abrasive wheels 12.46 
 &nbsp; (1) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 15.] (2) The allowable arbor or shaft speed of abrasive equipment must be clearly marked on the equipment. (3) A pneumatic grinder must have a governor which limits maximum shaft speed to that specified by the tool manufacturer, and the maximum rated speed must be marked on the equipment. (4) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 15.] [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 15.] Grinding prohibitions 12.47 
 &nbsp; The side of an abrasive wheel must not be used for grinding and non-ferrous materials must not be ground unless the wheel is designed for such use. Work rests 12.48 
 &nbsp; When the work is hand-held, a grinding machine must have an adjustable work rest with its upper edge at or above the centreline of the abrasive wheel and within 3 mm (1/8 in) of the cutting surface. Dust control 12.49 
 &nbsp; Dust from a grinding or buffing operation must be controlled to prevent a hazard to any worker. Repealed 12.50 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 16.] Powder Actuated Tools Standards 12.51 
 &nbsp; A powder actuated fastening system, consisting of the tool, power loads and fasteners must meet the requirements of ANSI Standard A10.3-1995, American National Standard for Construction and Demolition Operations — Safety Requirements for Powder-Actuated Fastening Systems . [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 4.] Tool selection 12.52 
 &nbsp; A low velocity powder actuated tool, with a fastener test speed rating of less than 100&nbsp;m (330&nbsp;ft) per second, must be used unless no low velocity tool available on the market is capable of doing the fastening task. Tool design 12.53 
 &nbsp; (1) Two separate and distinct operations must be required to activate a powder actuated tool and the final firing movement must be separate and subsequent to depressing the tool into the firing position. (2) The tool must be designed so that positive means of varying the power level is available, or can be made available, so that the operator may select a power level appropriate to perform the desired work. Markings 12.54 
 &nbsp; (1) A powder actuated tool must be marked with the manufacturer's name or trademark, model number and serial number. (2) A guard or accessory for use with a powder actuated tool must be marked with the manufacturer's name or trademark. Storage 12.55 
 &nbsp; (1) When not in use, a powder actuated tool must be unloaded and the tool and power loads must be securely stored and be accessible only to qualified and authorized persons. (2) Power loads of different power levels and types must be kept in different compartments or containers. Tool use 12.56 
 &nbsp; (1) Only a qualified person may handle or use a powder actuated tool or power loads. (2) The operator must have immediately available when using or servicing a powder actuated tool (a) a copy of the manufacturer's operating instructions for the tool, (b) a copy of the power load and fastener charts for the tool, and (c) any accessories or tools needed for use or field servicing of the tool, including personal protective equipment. (3) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 17 (b).] (4) A powder actuated tool must not be used in an explosive or flammable atmosphere. (5) A powder actuated tool may only be loaded when it is being prepared for immediate use, and must be unloaded at once if work is interrupted after loading. (6) A powder actuated tool must not be pointed at any person. (7) If a powder actuated tool misfires, the operator must hold the tool firmly against the work surface for at least 5&nbsp;seconds, then follow the manufacturer's instructions for such occurrences, and until the cartridge has been ejected, keep the tool pointed in a direction which will not cause injury to any person. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 17.] Limitations on use 12.57 
 &nbsp; (1) A powder actuated tool fastener must not be driven into very hard or brittle materials, such as cast iron, glazed tile, hardened steel, glass block, natural rock, hollow tile, and most brick. (2) A powder actuated tool fastener may only be driven into easily penetrated or thin materials or materials of unknown resistance if the receiving material is backed by a material that will prevent the fastener from passing completely through. (3) A powder actuated tool fastener must not be driven into steel within 13 mm (1/2 in) of an edge, or within 5 cm (2 in) of a weld except for special applications permitted by the tool manufacturer. (4) Except for special applications recommended by the manufacturer, a powder actuated tool fastener may not be driven into masonry materials (a) within 7.5 cm (3 in) of an unsupported edge with a low velocity tool, or (b) within 15 cm (6 in) of an unsupported edge with a medium or high velocity tool. (5) A powder actuated tool fastener must not be driven (a) into concrete unless material thickness is at least 3 times the fastener shank penetration, (b) into any spalled area, or (c) through existing holes unless a specific guide means, as recommended and supplied by the tool manufacturer, is used to assure positive alignment. Woodworking Tools and Equipment Hand feeding 12.58 
 &nbsp; A template, jig, or pushstick must be used if there is a risk of injury to a worker's hands when feeding woodworking machinery. Removing guards 12.59 
 &nbsp; (1) If the use of a guard on woodworking machinery is clearly impracticable for a specific operation, the guard may be removed, but an appropriate pushstick, jig, feather board or similar device must be used to prevent the operator encroaching into the cutting area, and upon completion of the operation the guard must be replaced. (2) A guard may otherwise only be removed if the guard itself creates a hazard, or if its removal is necessary for maintenance. Kickback fingers, splitters and spreaders 12.60 
 &nbsp; (1) If a hand-fed circular saw is used for ripping wood, or is used for any other purpose where there is a risk of kickback, the circular saw must have (a) anti-kickback fingers and a splitter or spreader designed to prevent kickback, or (b) a riving knife designed to prevent kickback. (2) Subsection (1) does not apply when the circular saw is used for grooving, dadoing or rabbeting. [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. A, s. 1.] Radial arm saw travel limits 12.61 
 &nbsp; The cutting table and the saw travel stop on a radial arm saw must be designed and maintained so that no part of the saw blade can travel past the forward edge of the cutting table. Jointers 12.62 
 &nbsp; A hand-fed wood jointer must have a self adjusting guard over the cutting head on the working side and a guard over the portion of the cutting head behind the fence. Sanding machines 12.63 
 &nbsp; (1) The revolving drums, pulleys, nip points, and unused runs of a sanding belt of a sanding machine must be effectively guarded. (2) Guards must be arranged so that only the portion of the belt necessary for the operation is exposed. Tenoning machines 12.64 
 &nbsp; A hand-fed tenoning machine must have a device which holds the material being cut. Hand-held circular saws 12.65 
 &nbsp; A hand-held circular saw must have a guard which automatically adjusts to the thickness of the material being cut, and which, when the saw is withdrawn from the material, completely covers the cutting area of the blade. Cutting heads 12.66 
 &nbsp; (1) A cutting head on a woodworking tool or piece of equipment such as a router, a shaper or a sticker must be properly adjusted and secured. (2) If two or more knives are used in one head, they must be balanced. (3) A cutting head protective hood fitted on woodworking equipment must be strong enough to contain fragments which result from failure of cutting head components. (4) A small hand-held router using a one piece cutting bit is exempt from the requirements of subsection (3). Band saws 12.67 
 &nbsp; (1) A band saw blade must be enclosed or guarded, except for the working side of the blade between the guide rolls and the table. (2) A band saw wheel must be fully encased. Mobile Chippers Hand-fed chippers 12.68 
 &nbsp; A hand-fed mobile chipper must have a barrier or baffle installed on the feed side of the rotor to prevent the ejection of chipped material. Self-feeding chippers 12.69 
 &nbsp; A self-feeding chipper must have a table or apron extending at least 1.5&nbsp;m (5&nbsp;ft) back from the rotor with sides sufficiently high to prevent a worker from reaching in and contacting the rotating knife. Driven-feed chippers 12.70 
 &nbsp; (1) A driven-feed chipper must have (a) a feed table that meets both of the following requirements: (i) the feed table, including the drop-down extension, if any, must extend at least 150 cm (59 in) from the nip point of the feed rollers; (ii) the total distance from the nip point of the feed rollers to the ground must be at least 210 cm (82 in), as measured along the centre line of the feed table to the lip of the feed table and then vertically from the lip of the feed table to the ground, (b) side walls on the feed table, including any drop-down extension, and on the guard chute that are of sufficient height to prevent a worker who is standing on the ground from reaching the feed rollers, and (c) a feed control bar that is (i) located across the top and close to the feed end of the guard chute, and (ii) designed so that a worker endangered by the feed rollers is able to stop or reverse the feed rollers both by (A) pushing the feed control bar to its forward travel limit, and (B) pulling the feed control bar to its rearward travel limit. (2) No part of a person's body may be on the feed table or in the guard chute unless (a) the feed rollers have stopped, and (b) the motor of the driven-feed chipper is turned off and locked out. (3) Despite subsection (1), a driven-feed chipper that is in use in British Columbia before February 1, 2012 may continue to be used if (a) the driven-feed chipper meets the requirements of subsection (1) (a) and (b), (b) the feed control bar meets the requirements of subsection (1) (c) (i), and (c) the feed control bar is designed so that a worker endangered by the feed rollers is able to stop or reverse the feed rollers by at least one of the means set out in subsection (1) (c) (ii). [en. B.C. Reg. 188/2011, App. E, s. 1.] Vertically fed chippers 12.71 
 &nbsp; On a mobile chipper which gravity feeds material through a vertical hopper to the rotor, the sides of the hopper must be of a depth which prevents the operator from reaching in so as to contact the rotor, but which, in no case, is less than 90 cm (3&nbsp;ft) measured from the top edge of the hopper to the periphery of the rotor. Chain Saws Standards 12.72 
 &nbsp; (1) A chain saw must meet the requirements of CSA Standard Z62.1-95, Chain Saws . (2) A chain saw must have a chain brake that activates automatically upon kickback regardless of the position of the power head or operator's hands. (3) A chain saw manufactured before January 1, 1999, with a guide bar exceeding 66 cm (26 in.), measured from the top of the cutters at the bar tip to the point of the "dogs" or "bumper spikes", is exempt from the requirement for a chain brake. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Stopping chain movement 12.73 
 &nbsp; A chain saw chain must be stopped before the saw operator moves from cut to cut, unless the next cut is in the immediate area and the saw operator can safely move to the next cutting position. Automotive Lifts and Other Vehicle Supports Standards 12.74 
 &nbsp; (1) An automotive lift must meet the requirements of ANSI Standard ANSI/ALI ALCTV-1998, American National Standard for Automotive Lifts — Safety Requirements for Construction, Testing and Validation . (2) The operation, inspection and maintenance of an automotive lift must meet the requirements of ANSI Standard ANSI/ALI ALOIM-2000, American National Standard for Automotive Lifts — Safety Requirements for Operation, Inspection and Maintenance . (3) Portable automotive lifting devices and vehicle supports must meet the requirements of the applicable section of ANSI Standard ASME PALD-2003, Safety Standard for Portable Automotive Lifting Devices . [en. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 1.] Assembly and installation 12.75 
 &nbsp; An automotive lift, portable automotive lifting device or other vehicle support must be assembled and installed by qualified personnel. [am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. B, s. 18; 17/2006, s. 2.] Operation 12.76 
 &nbsp; Operation, inspection, repair, maintenance and modification of an automotive lift, portable automotive lifting device or other vehicle support must be carried out according to the manufacturer's instructions or the written instructions of a professional engineer. [am. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 3.] Records 12.77 
 &nbsp; The employer must keep a maintenance, inspection, modification and repair record for each automotive lift. [en. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 4.] Inspection and testing 12.78 
 &nbsp; An automotive lift must be inspected and tested monthly in a manner acceptable to the Board, unless the manufacturer requires more frequent inspection and testing. [am. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 5.] Rated capacity 12.79 
 &nbsp; (1) The rated capacity must be marked on each automotive lift, portable automotive lifting device or other vehicle support and must not be exceeded. (2) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. C, s. 3 (c).] (3) If the rated capacity of a device listed in subsection (1) is dependent on the concurrent use of 2 or more devices, the number of devices required to achieve the rated capacity must be clearly marked on the devices. [am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. C, s. 3; 17/2006, s. 6.] Controls 12.80 
 &nbsp; The control for an automotive lift must require continuous pressure by the operator when raising or lowering the unit, and the control must return to the neutral position when released. Vehicle restraint 12.80.1 
 &nbsp; Before a runway type automotive lift is used, (a) manual wheel chocks must be used as the primary means to restrain the vehicle from movement, and (b) automatic or fixed stops, or a combination of them, must be provided and used as a secondary means to prevent the vehicle from inadvertently rolling off either end of the runway. [en. B.C. Reg. 17/2006, s. 7.] Swing-arm restraint 12.80.2 
 &nbsp; (1) An automotive lift that has swing arms must have swing-arm pivot restraints if (a) no part of the rigid superstructure is under the raised vehicle, or (b) the lift has 2 or more superstructures and the clearance between the rigid parts of the superstructures on each side of the vehicle is 1.3&nbsp;m (51&nbsp;in.) or more. (2) Swing-arm pivot restraints required under subsection (1) must be designed and maintained to prevent unintentional removal or disengagement of the swing-arm pivot restraints when a vehicle is being supported by the automotive lift. [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. I.] Miscellaneous Equipment Tumblers 12.81 
 &nbsp; A tumbler drum must be guarded or enclosed, and any access door in a guard or enclosure must have interlocks which prevent the access door from being opened while the drum is rotating, and the drum from operating while the access door is open. Pneumatic nailing and stapling tools 12.82 
 &nbsp; (1) A hand held pneumatic nailing or stapling tool capable of driving fasteners larger than 1.2 mm (0.05 in. or 18 gauge ASWG) must not activate unless the operator performs 2 actions, one of which is to place the tool against a work surface. (2) The trigger of a pneumatic nailing or stapling tool must not be taped or otherwise secured in the "on" position, or held in the "on" position while moving between operations. (3) The air supply to a pneumatic nailing or stapling tool must be disconnected before adjusting or servicing the tool. (4) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 19.] [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 19.] Industrial robots 12.83 
 &nbsp; An industrial robot or robot system must be installed, safeguarded, maintained, tested and started, used, programmed and workers trained to meet the requirements of (a) CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z434-94, Industrial Robots and Robot Systems — General Safety Requirements , or (b) ANSI Standard ANSI/RIA R15.06-1992, American National Standard Industrial Robots and Robot Systems — Safety Requirements. (c) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 18 (c).] [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 18.] Chassis dynamometers — motor vehicle testing 12.83.1 
 &nbsp; (1) In this section: "guard screen" means a screen manufactured from shock-absorbing material and designed to prevent any material striking the screen from ricocheting; "motor vehicle" means a wheeled vehicle that is propelled by motorized or electric power, but does not include a vehicle that is designed to be used on rails or tracks. (2) Only a qualified worker may (a) test a motor vehicle on a chassis dynamometer, or (b) operate a motor vehicle, chassis dynamometer or other test equipment for the purpose of testing a motor vehicle on a chassis dynamometer. (3) Before a motor vehicle is tested on a chassis dynamometer, the wheels and tires of the motor vehicle must be inspected by a qualified worker. (4) A motor vehicle must not be tested on a chassis dynamometer if any of the following apply: (a) the tires on the motor vehicle contain rocks, stones or other foreign material embedded in the tire treads; (b) the tires on the motor vehicle are studded; (c) the wheels or tires on the motor vehicle are incapable of operating safely at the speeds to be reached during testing; (d) the wheels or tires on the motor vehicle bounce during testing in a manner that is likely to cause the motor vehicle to move laterally off the rolls; (e) the motor vehicle is likely, without continuous corrective steering, to move laterally off the rolls during testing. (5) The following safety measures must be taken when testing a motor vehicle on a chassis dynamometer: (a) the chassis dynamometer must be equipped with front-mounted idler safety rolls unless the motor vehicle is chained or otherwise secured to anchor points to prevent runaways; (b) wheel chocks must be used to block the non-driving wheels to prevent runaways; (c) in the case of a motor vehicle with front-wheel drive, the motor vehicle must be prevented from moving laterally during testing; (d) guard screens of a size that is appropriate for the motor vehicle must be positioned behind the rear of the motor vehicle to block any materials that may be ejected from or by the wheels or tires; (e) the exposed portions of the moving rolls of the chassis dynamometer must be fitted with adequate guards while the rolls are in motion during testing; (f) exhaust gases from the motor vehicle must be removed from the work area. [en. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. H.] Drilling Rock or Similar Materials General requirement 12.84 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that before drilling (a) the back, face and sides of the work area have been scaled and stabilized, (b) the working face and surrounding area have been thoroughly washed, and (c) remnants of holes have been inspected for explosives and distinctively marked. Drilling equipment 12.85 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that (a) a rock drill is not used unless equipped with a water jet or other device capable of suppressing rock dust, and (b) adequate restraining devices are installed on hose connections under pressure, if inadvertent disconnection could endanger workers. Control location 12.86 
 &nbsp; Operating controls must not be installed on the feed slide of a top-hammer percussion drill. Boom hazard 12.87 
 &nbsp; A worker must not proceed beyond the front of the drill controls of a drill jumbo if the drills are in operation, unless the drilling equipment is specifically designed and certified for that purpose. Drill jumbos 12.88 
 &nbsp; (1) A drill jumbo that contains decks must be (a) fitted with guardrails and toeboards, meeting the requirements of Part 4 (General Conditions), around the upper decks, (b) equipped with a rack or receptacle for securely storing drill rods and other equipment, (c) provided with safe access to each working level, (d) provided with a visual warning system to warn workers located below the upper decks, before a worker above collars a hole or removes the boom stabilizer from the face after finishing a hole, and (e) securely fixed in position at the face to prevent inadvertent movement during drilling operations. (2) Explosives must not be brought onto or under a drill jumbo during a drilling operation, nor may holes be loaded until drilling is complete. Drilling procedures 12.89 
 &nbsp; A driller must ensure that (a) the cut is not drilled in the same location as the previous round, (b) holes are not drilled within 15 cm (6 in) of any part of a bootleg as defined in section 21.1, and (c) there is no drilling at a face when a hole is loaded or being loaded with explosives except in conformity with the requirements on drilling to refire a misfire, as specified in Part 21 (Blasting Operations). [am. B.C. Reg. 207/2021, App. A, s. 1.] Rod handling 12.90 
 &nbsp; (1) A drill operator working without a helper must not manually add or remove drill steel or a drill bit, or service drilling equipment, while the drill is rotating under power. (2) A worker assisting the drill operator with drill bit or drill steel handling must remain clear of rotating parts of the drill system. (3) Except as provided in subsection (4), a boom-mounted percussion drill being used with multiple lengths of coupled drill steel must have a rod changer or other effective device installed and used to add or remove drill steel. (4) If it is not practicable to fit a rod changer to a boom-mounted percussion drill, adequate written safe work procedures for adding and removing drill steel must be available, and the drill must be operated in accordance with those procedures. Self-propelled rock drills 12.91 
 &nbsp; A self-propelled rock drill without a ROPS (a) must have controls for machine travel that allow the operator to access the controls (i) while standing on the upslope side of the machine, or (ii) from a position off the machine and upslope from it, and (b) may only be moved under its own power if the operator is in a position referred to in paragraph (a) (i) or (ii), so that the operator is already off the machine or in a position to safely step off the machine should it roll or slide downhill. [en. B.C. Reg. 139/2021, App. D, s. 7.] Cleaning drilled holes 12.92 
 &nbsp; If a drilled hole is being cleaned using an air or water pressure blowpipe, the operator must ensure that everyone is clear of the area made hazardous by blowback. Breaking and Melting Metal Breaking metal 12.93 
 &nbsp; An effective guard or barrier must be installed to protect workers from flying metal fragments if a drop weight or other impact device is used to break castings or other metal. Inspection of linings 12.94 
 &nbsp; A furnace, crucible, ladle, mould or other equipment for handling or containing molten metal must be inspected at regular intervals to determine the condition of the lining, and if any abnormal deterioration is observed the equipment must be removed from service without delay. Preventing eruptions 12.95 
 &nbsp; All practicable means must be used to prevent eruptions caused by moisture in furnaces, ladles, crucibles, molds and other equipment containing molten metal. Inspection of materials 12.96 
 &nbsp; (1) Material to be put in a melting furnace must be carefully inspected to ensure that a cylinder, tank or similar closed vessel of any description is not placed in the furnace. (2) Before being exposed to the intense heat of a furnace, a closed vessel must be cut open to eliminate the explosion hazard, but must not be cut open using a method involving the application of heat or flame. (3) If a worker must be situated near an open furnace during charging operations, the material to be melted must be carefully examined and, if necessary, must be sufficiently preheated to ensure that moisture and foreign substances are eliminated. (4) Preheating must be done under controlled circumstances to ensure that no worker is endangered by the process. Abrasive Blasting and High Pressure Washing Definitions 12.97 
 &nbsp; In sections 12.97 to 12.111: "cabinet" means an enclosure designed to permit abrasive blasting, high pressure washing or a similar operation to be conducted safely inside the enclosure by a worker who is outside the enclosure; "enclosure" means a temporary or permanent enclosure of a work area provided with exhaust ventilation and makeup air to reduce exposure of workers inside the enclosure and prevent the uncontrolled release of air contaminants from the enclosure; "high pressure washing" or "jetting" means the use of water or other liquid delivered from a pump at a pressure exceeding 34 MPa (5&nbsp;000 psi), with or without the addition of solid particles, to remove unwanted matter from a surface or to penetrate into the surface of a material for the purpose of cutting that material. Risk assessment 12.98 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that a risk assessment is done before any abrasive blasting activity, high pressure washing process, or related cleanup is started which may cause release of a harmful level of an air contaminant from a surface or coating containing a toxic heavy metal or asbestos. Work procedures outside a cabinet 12.99 
 &nbsp; If abrasive blasting, high pressure washing or a similar operation is conducted by a worker outside a cabinet, written safe work procedures addressing the hazards and necessary controls must be prepared and implemented by the employer. Substitution 12.100 
 &nbsp; Abrasive blasting materials containing crystalline silica must be replaced with less toxic materials, when practicable. Reuse prohibition 12.101 
 &nbsp; (1) An abrasive material must not be reused if it (a) contains crystalline silica, or (b) becomes contaminated with any harmful impurities including metals such as lead, chromium, nickel or mercury. (2) The requirements of subsection (1) do not apply to a fully enclosed, vented cabinet designed to recirculate the abrasive material. Cleanup 12.102 
 &nbsp; (1) Used abrasive blasting materials which contain a substance designated under section&nbsp;5.57 must be removed from the work area by using effective procedures designed to minimize the generation of airborne dust, and suitable personal protective equipment. (2) Removal under subsection (1) must take place by the end of each shift unless (a) a risk assessment establishes that the risks from removal will exceed the risks from leaving the materials in place, (b) no workers will be exposed to the materials before removal occurs, or (c) the materials cannot be separated from the environment in which the abrasive blasting takes place. (3) If removal is delayed pursuant to subsection (2), the employer must assess the risks arising from delaying the removal and develop safe work procedures. (4) The work procedures developed under subsection (3) must be in writing. [en. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 8.] Engineering controls 12.103 
 &nbsp; Engineering controls such as an enclosure or local exhaust ventilation with dust collection must be used to maintain airborne contaminant levels below exposure limits, where practicable. Exhaust ventilation 12.104 
 &nbsp; (1) When abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted within a structure, the process must be isolated in a separate, properly ventilated enclosure or cabinet to minimize worker exposure to air contaminants generated by the process. (2) When abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted inside an enclosure or cabinet, the enclosure or cabinet must have exhaust ventilation that (a) maintains air pressure below the air pressure outside the enclosure or cabinet, so as to prevent the escape of air contaminants from the enclosure or cabinet to other work areas, and (b) minimizes worker exposure inside the enclosure. Restricted work zones 12.105 
 &nbsp; (1) When abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted outside a structure, the process must be restricted to a work zone which is identified by signs or similar means as being a contaminated area. (2) Only properly protected workers who are necessary to perform the work are permitted inside an enclosure or a restricted work zone where abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted. Operating controls 12.106 
 &nbsp; (1) The operating controls for a sandblasting machine or jetting gun must be (a) located near the nozzle in a position where the operator's hands will be when using the device, (b) the continuous pressure type that immediately stops the flow of material when released, and (c) protected from inadvertent activation. (2) Subsection (1) (a) does not apply to sandblasting machines or jetting guns used in operations where hand operated controls are clearly impracticable, in which case the operator must use a foot operated control or equivalent safety device, both of a design acceptable to the Board. [en. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 9.] Repealed 12.107 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 20.] Jetting gun 12.108 
 &nbsp; A jetting gun must not be modified except as authorized by the manufacturer. Holding work 12.109 
 &nbsp; A worker must not hand hold an object while it is being cleaned or cut by a jetting gun. Hose restraint 12.110 
 &nbsp; High pressure hoses, pipes, and fittings must be supported to prevent excessive sway and movement. Personal protective equipment 12.111 
 &nbsp; (1) A nozzle or jetting gun operator must wear personal protective clothing and equipment on the body, hands, arms, legs and feet, including the metatarsal area, made of canvas, leather or other material which will protect the worker's skin from injury in the event of contact with the flow from the nozzle. (2) Unless the process is isolated from the operator in a separate cabinet, a suitable respirator must be provided and worn whenever abrasive blasting or a similar operation is conducted. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 13.] Welding, Cutting and Allied Processes Standards 12.112 
 &nbsp; Welding, cutting and similar processes must be carried out according to the requirements of CSA Standard W117.2-94, Safety in Welding, Cutting, and Allied Processes . [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 21.] Repealed 12.113 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 5.] Ventilation 12.114 
 &nbsp; Effective local exhaust ventilation must be used at any fixed work station to minimize worker exposure to harmful air contaminants produced by welding, burning or soldering. Coatings on metals 12.115 
 &nbsp; A coating on metal which could emit harmful contaminants (such as lead, chromium, organic materials, or toxic combustion products) must be removed from the base metal, whenever practicable, before welding or cutting begins. Flammable and explosive substances 12.116 
 &nbsp; (1) A container which may have held a combustible substance must be thoroughly cleaned before any welding or burning operation is carried out on the container. (2) Burning, welding or other hot work must not be done on any vessel, tank, pipe or structure, or in any place where the presence of a flammable or explosive substance is likely until (a) tests have been made by a qualified person to ensure the work may be safely performed, and (b) suitable safe work procedures have been adopted, including additional tests made at intervals that will ensure the continuing safety of the workers. Silver solder 12.117 
 &nbsp; Silver solder containing cadmium must not be used without prior written approval from the Board. Correct equipment 12.118 
 &nbsp; Welding equipment, including regulators, automatic reducing valves and hoses, must be used only for the gas for which it is designed. Equipment inspection 12.119 
 &nbsp; Before using gas welding or burning equipment, the operator must ensure that the equipment is free from defects, leaks, oil and grease. Flashback prevention 12.120 
 &nbsp; Suitable safety devices to prevent reverse gas flow and to arrest a flashback must be installed on each hose in an oxyfuel system, between the torch and the regulator. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 22.] Receptacles for stubs 12.121 
 &nbsp; Receptacles for electrode stubs must be provided and used. Radiation protection 12.122 
 &nbsp; (1) Arc welding must not be carried out unless workers who may be exposed to radiation from the arc flash are protected by adequate screens, curtains or partitions or wear suitable eye protection. (2) A screen, curtain or partition near an arc welding operation must be made of or be treated with a flame resistant material or coating, and must have a nonreflective surface finish. Protective clothing and equipment 12.123 
 &nbsp; A worker involved in welding or burning operations must wear (a) flame resistant work clothing, (b) gauntlet gloves of leather or other suitable material and arm protection, (c) an apron of leather or other suitable material for heavy work, (d) eye and face protection against harmful radiation, particles of molten metal, and while chipping and grinding welds, and (e) substantial safety footwear made of leather or other suitable material. Respiratory protection 12.124 
 &nbsp; A respirator must be provided and worn if an effective means of natural, mechanical or local exhaust ventilation is not practicable (a) during short duration welding, burning or similar operations, and (b) during emergency work. [en. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 10; am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 14.] Marking hot work 12.125 
 &nbsp; Recently welded or flame cut work must be marked "HOT" or effectively guarded to prevent contact by a worker, if a worker not directly involved in the hot work is likely to enter the work area. Fire extinguishers 12.126 
 &nbsp; (1) At least one fire extinguisher of a suitable type and capacity must be immediately available at a work location where welding or cutting is done. (2) Fire extinguisher locations must be marked and made known to workers. Painting, Coating and Work with Plastics and Resins Application 12.127 
 &nbsp; Sections 12.128 to 12.141 apply to a workplace in which there is spraying or use of a paint or similar coating, a fibre reinforced resin, a thermoplastic material, an expandable resin foam, or other similar materials. Substitution 12.128 
 &nbsp; (1) An employer must ensure that a less hazardous substance or work process is substituted for a higher hazard substance or process, whenever practicable. (2) The employer must ensure that a substitute for a paint containing toxic heavy metal components is used if an alternative product exists. Restrictions 12.129 
 &nbsp; (1) A toxic (WHMIS D1 or D2) or flammable chemical or chlorofluorocarbon must not be used as a propellant in spraying operations. (2) Spraying a flammable or other hazardous product is prohibited within a general work area, unless effective controls have been installed to control the fire, explosion and toxicity hazards. (3) When practicable, a coating must not be applied to a material about to be welded. Warning signs 12.130 
 &nbsp; A work area or enclosure where hazardous materials are handled or used must be posted with suitable signs or placards warning workers of the hazards within the identified restricted access area and stating the precautions for entry into the area. Enclosure 12.131 
 &nbsp; When practicable, a ventilated spray booth or other enclosure designed to control worker exposure must be used during (a) any operation or process which involves spraying a paint or resin, (b) lay-up or moulding of reinforced plastic, or (c) any application of a paint, coating or insulation containing a sensitizer such as an isocyanate compound, or similar operations using very toxic materials. Air flow 12.132 
 &nbsp; (1) The air velocity through a horizontal flow spray booth, a vertical flow, down-draft booth or other enclosure required by section&nbsp;12.131 must be at least (a) 50 cm/s (100 fpm) if the cross-sectional area is 14 m 2 (150&nbsp;ft 2 ) or less, and (b) 25 cm/s (50 fpm) if the cross-sectional area is greater than 14 m 2 (150&nbsp;ft 2 ). (2) In outdoor applications of materials listed in section 12.131, an air velocity across the work area of at least 0.25 m/s (50 fpm) must be assured, by mechanical means if necessary, to carry vapours and aerosols away from the breathing zone of a worker. Control of ignition sources 12.133 
 &nbsp; A ventilation system used to control airborne contaminants must have electrical and mechanical systems designed to control all potential ignition sources. [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 6.] Arrester filters 12.134 
 &nbsp; (1) A ventilation system subject to heavy concentrations of overspray from the operation must have an arrester filter. (2) An arrester filter must be maintained in good operating condition and replaced when the pressure drop across the filter exceeds the design criteria. Respiratory protection 12.135 
 &nbsp; Each worker who is or may be exposed to an airborne contaminant generated by a spray operation involving a sensitizing agent referred to in section 5.57 (1) must be provided with and wear a supplied-air respirator. [am. B.C. Regs. 315/2003, App. A, s. 14; 312/2010, App. G, s. 15.] Disposal of isocyanate containers 12.136 
 &nbsp; Empty, non-returnable containers which contained isocyanates must be decontaminated by filling them with water and allowing them to stand for a minimum of 48 hours, without being sealed, stoppered or closed, after which they must be pierced to prevent re-use. Repealed 12.137 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. F, s. 3.] Airless spray equipment 12.138 
 &nbsp; An airless spray gun must have (a) a means to electrically bond the gun to the paint reservoir and pump, (b) a guard that will protect against trigger activation if the gun is dropped, and (c) the trigger function configured to require two distinct operations by the user to activate the release of paint or fluid through the nozzle, or a safety device which prevents the nozzle tip from coming into contact with a worker. Design for high pressure 12.139 
 &nbsp; An airless spray gun, hose, fitting and pressure vessel must be designed and constructed to withstand the pressure involved. Heating plastics 12.140 
 &nbsp; Emissions from operations involved in heating plastics to temperatures which may release thermal decomposition products must be removed from the workplace by local exhaust ventilation when there is a risk of harm to a worker from exposure to these emissions. Resin foams 12.141 
 &nbsp; (1) A foam installation process performed indoors must be controlled or contained so that unprotected workers are not exposed to emissions by using an enclosure, portable local exhaust ventilation, or scheduling arrangements. (2) A foam installation process performed outdoors and relying on natural ventilation must be done in an area restricted to authorized personnel wearing adequate personal protective equipment. Laundry and Dry Cleaning Activities Definitions 12.142 
 &nbsp; In sections 12.143 to 12.166: "dry-to-dry machine" means a system in which the washing and drying is done in a single machine that is vented to a vapour recovery system or to the atmosphere during the drying and deodorizing phases of the machine cycle; "fully enclosed refrigerated system" means a system in which the washing and drying is done in a single machine that is not vented to either a vapour recovery system or to the atmosphere during the drying and deodorizing phases of the machine cycle; "spot cleaning" means applying spotting solvents or solutions by hand to remove spots or stains; "transfer system" means a system in which the washing and drying is done in separate machines. Dry Cleaning Open cleaning prohibited 12.143 
 &nbsp; Dry cleaning in an open vessel by immersion, agitation, or spraying is prohibited except as required for spot cleaning. Systems and equipment 12.144 
 &nbsp; (1) Dry cleaning systems and equipment must be designed, installed, operated and maintained to prevent the escape of solvent. (2) Dry cleaning solvents may only be used in transfer, dry-to-dry, or fully enclosed refrigerated systems designed and installed for this purpose. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 23.] Equipment labels 12.145 
 &nbsp; A dry cleaning machine must have a label specifying the chemical name of the solvent it has been designed to use. Solvent handling 12.146 
 &nbsp; Dry cleaning solvents and additives must be stored and handled in a manner that minimizes evaporation and spillage. Bulk storage 12.147 
 &nbsp; A dry cleaning solvent bulk storage tank located inside a building must be effectively vented to the outdoors. Machine ventilation 12.148 
 &nbsp; (1) A transfer, dry-to-dry, or fully enclosed refrigerated system must have an effective exhaust ventilation system which operates whenever the loading door is open to create an airflow into the door opening of at least 50 cm/sec (100&nbsp;fpm) averaged across the face of the opening, and which maintains the concentration of solvent vapour in the workplace below the applicable exposure limits. (2) A fully enclosed refrigerated system is exempt from the requirements of subsection (1) if workers are not exposed to levels of solvent vapours above 50% of the applicable exposure limits. General ventilation 12.149 
 &nbsp; A dry cleaning area must have adequate general ventilation to maintain the concentration of evaporated solvents below the applicable exposure limits. Inspection and repair 12.150 
 &nbsp; Dry cleaning equipment must be regularly inspected for liquid and vapour leaks, and any leaks must be repaired promptly. Open flame heaters 12.151 
 &nbsp; An open flame heating apparatus must not be located in the same work area as a dry cleaning machine and must have corrosion-resistant flue and draft hoods to conduct products of combustion to the outdoors. Combustion air supply 12.152 
 &nbsp; A flame heating apparatus must not obtain combustion air from areas subject to contamination with dry cleaning solvent vapours. Vents 12.153 
 &nbsp; A vent pipe and duct which carries solvent vapour from a dry cleaning process, solvent recovery equipment or dry cleaning work area must (a) have vapour-proof joints, (b) discharge to the outside atmosphere at least 1.8&nbsp;m (6&nbsp;ft) above the roof peak and at least 3&nbsp;m (10&nbsp;ft) from any door, window or other building opening, and (c) not discharge into any flue used for combustion products, nor into any building ventilation duct. Servicing and maintenance 12.154 
 &nbsp; (1) A worker who may be exposed to dry cleaning solvent liquid or vapour during equipment servicing such as changing solvent filters, must wear appropriate personal protective equipment to prevent inhalation and skin contact. (2) A filter or filter material that has been used in a dry cleaning system must be placed in a metal container with a tight fitting lid and stored in a well ventilated area. Emergency ventilation 12.155 
 &nbsp; (1) Supplemental floor level emergency ventilation equipment must be available within 4.6&nbsp;m (15&nbsp;ft) of the dry cleaning equipment for use in the event of a spill, leak or accidental release of solvent liquid or solvent vapour. (2) Supplemental ventilating equipment must be capable of changing the air in the dry cleaning area every 5 minutes (12 room-air changes per hour). (3) The control switch for supplemental ventilation equipment must be readily accessible in an emergency, and must be clearly identified by signs or similar means. Spotting chemicals 12.156 
 &nbsp; (1) A work surface where spot cleaning is done must be designed to contain spills and minimize exposure. (2) Spotting chemicals must be kept in containers which will prevent skin contact, and appropriate skin protection must be used when spot cleaning is done. Supplier responsibility 12.157 
 &nbsp; When articles are sent for processing to a laundry or dry cleaning facility, the employer sending the articles must advise the operator of the facility, in writing, of (a) the identity of any materials contained with the articles which could pose a hazard to workers handling the articles, (b) the nature of any hazard that may arise from the materials, and (c) general precautionary measures to be followed when handling the materials. Operator responsibility 12.158 
 &nbsp; If articles to be processed may contain materials such as hazardous biological or chemical contaminants, sharp objects, or other materials which would pose a hazard to workers handling the articles, the operator of a laundry or dry cleaning establishment must (a) determine the nature of any hazard to workers, (b) develop effective written safe work procedures to minimize the risk of injury and disease, and (c) ensure that workers are adequately instructed and directed to follow the safe work procedures. Laundry Equipment Flatwork ironers 12.159 
 &nbsp; Feed-rolls for a flatwork ironer must have a front mounted trip bar designed to stop the machine on contact, or a fixed guard that will prevent the operator's hands from entering the rolls. Roller-type ironers 12.160 
 &nbsp; (1) A roller-type ironer must have a front mounted fixed guard, designed to prevent the operator's hands from entering the rolls. (2) The hot roll must be guarded to prevent contact by workers. Press-type ironers 12.161 
 &nbsp; (1) A press-type ironer must have an automatic device to prevent the application of injurious pressure when the operator's fingers are between the bed and the pressure-head, or have a device which requires both of the operator's hands to be removed from the danger zone when the machine is tripped. (2) Hand controls must be well recessed or effectively shrouded to prevent inadvertent activation, require concurrent use of both the operator's hands, and require both controls to be released before another machine cycle can be initiated. (3) Pads and covers must not be of a type that will allow the garment or fabric to slip off the buck easily, with or without vacuuming. Interlocks 12.162 
 &nbsp; Drum-type washing machines and dryers must have devices which prevent the drum from operating while the door is open. Centrifugal extractors 12.163 
 &nbsp; A centrifugal extractor must have devices to prevent power being applied before the cover is closed and to prevent the cover being opened while the basket is in motion. Laundry chutes 12.164 
 &nbsp; A laundry chute must discharge into an unoccupied area, or have baffles or other equally effective means to prevent laundry coming out of the chute from striking workers. Laundry carts 12.165 
 &nbsp; A laundry cart must be maintained in good mechanical condition and free of sharp corners, edges, or splintered wood. Spillage 12.166 
 &nbsp; Curbs or other effective means must be provided to contain any liquid spilled from a washing machine, dry cleaning machine or associated equipment. Rail Car Movement Application 12.167 
 &nbsp; Sections 12.168 to 12.172 apply to movement of rail cars except those on a federally or otherwise provincially regulated railway. General requirements 12.168 
 &nbsp; (1) Written safe work procedures must be developed and made available to all workers involved in moving, loading or unloading railway cars. (2) Equipment used to move railway cars must be adequately designed and have the capacity to control railway car speed and direction at all times. (3) Proper, designated attachment points on railway cars must be used to move railway cars. (4) Railway cars being loaded on a siding must be protected against unexpected movement by other rail traffic on the siding by the "Blue Flag Rule" as specified in the Canadian Rail Operating Rules. (5) Before a railway car is coupled or moved the load must be properly secured and all vehicles and equipment used to load or unload the car must be in the clear. (6) Derails must be installed and used (a) where it is possible for railway cars to move freely and to foul other tracks or create other hazards, and (b) where required by the Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act, 1992 (Canada). Clearance 12.169 &nbsp; The employer must identify clearances that are less than the standard clearance with restricted clearance signs as specified in the Canadian Rail Operating Rules. Riding restriction 12.170 
 &nbsp; If less than standard clearance exists, as specified in the Canadian Rail Operating Rules, workers must not ride on the top or sides of railway equipment. Brakes 12.171 
 &nbsp; (1) Railway cars on a siding must have an adequate number of hand brakes set to prevent inadvertent movement. (2) Railway car air brake systems must not be used on a private siding unless authorized by the Engineering and Inspection Branch of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing. Tracks 12.172 
 &nbsp; (1) All dead end tracks located in areas where workers are required to be must have a means to prevent rail mounted equipment from travelling off the end of the tracks. (2) All tracks on private sidings must be maintained to standards which permit the safe transit of all rail mounted equipment using the tracks. Pressure Vessels Pressure relief device — when required 12.173 
 &nbsp; (1) In this section "pressure vessel" has the same meaning as in the Power Engineers, Boiler, Pressure Vessel and Refrigeration Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg. 104/2004. (2) A pressure vessel must have a pressure relief device that is set to discharge at 103 kPa (15 psi) or less, if the pressure vessel (a) is connected to a production facility, compressor station or other pressure source, and (b) is not directly open to the atmosphere. (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to a pressure vessel if (a) the pressure vessel is subject to the Power Engineers, Boiler, Pressure Vessel and Refrigeration Safety Regulation, B.C. Reg. 104/2004, or (b) the manufacturer of the pressure vessel or a professional engineer indicates in writing that (i) the pressure vessel will not operate in accordance with its engineered design if the vessel has a pressure relief device that is set to discharge at 103 kPa (15 psi), and (ii) the pressure vessel can be operated safely without a pressure relief device or with a pressure relief device that is set to discharge at greater than 103 kPa (15 psi). (4) A pressurized system, including any lines running from the output side of a pressure relief device that may be subject to accidental restriction, must be protected by a pressure relief device. [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. B, s. 2.] Pressure relief device — installation 12.174 
 &nbsp; (1) In this section "pressure relief device" means a pressure relief device referred to in section 12.173. (2) A pressure relief device must (a) have a flow capacity that is not less than the flow capacity of the pressure source, and (b) be set to discharge at not more than the pressure rating of the component in the pressurized system with the lowest pressure rating. (3) Any fluid or material discharged through a pressure relief device must be piped to a place where it will not endanger workers. (4) The diameter of piping connected to the pressure side and the discharge side of a pressure relief device must not be smaller than the diameter of the openings to the device. (5) The piping on the discharge side of a pressure relief device must be (a) secured to prevent movement, and (b) sloped to drain fluids away from the pressure relief device if freezing could restrict the fluid flow. (6) A valve must not be installed in the discharge opening of a pressure relief device, or the device's discharge pipe, unless required by engineering design. (7) A pressure relief device that requires block valves by engineering design must have the block valves locked in the appropriate position. (8) A guard must be installed around the shear pin and spindle of a pressure relief device. [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. B, s. 2.] Roll-on/Roll-off Containers Definitions 12.175 
 &nbsp; In sections 12.176 to 12.183: "container safety standard" means ANSI Standard ANSI Z245.30-2008, American National Standard for Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable Materials — Waste Containers — Safety Requirements ; "roll-on/roll-off container" means a container that (a) is typically used to receive, store and transport refuse, and (b) is designed to be used with a vehicle equipped with hydraulic or mechanical tilt-frame and hoist-type equipment, commonly referred to as roll-offs or hook-lifts. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Container safety standard 12.176 
 &nbsp; (1) A supplier of a roll-on/roll-off container manufactured on or after February 1, 2015, must ensure that the container is designed and manufactured in accordance with the requirements of the container safety standard. (2) Employers must ensure that workers handle roll-on/roll-off containers in accordance with the requirements of the container safety standard. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Protection against specified hazards 12.177 
 &nbsp; An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must ensure that persons are not exposed to the following hazards in respect of a roll-on/roll-off container: (a) the rupture or disintegration, resulting from poor maintenance, of the lifting eye, cables, anchors, latches, doors, guards, hinges or ladder rungs; (b) being hit or struck by the unintended or premature discharge of any thing or substance collected, used, stored or transported in the container. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Visual inspection before loading container onto vehicle 12.178 
 &nbsp; (1) Before loading a roll-on/roll-off container onto a vehicle, the driver of the vehicle must (a) visually inspect the container for defects that may be a hazard, and (b) ensure that the container doors will not open when the container is moved between the ground and the vehicle. (2) If the driver identifies a defect in a roll-on/roll-off container that may be a hazard, the driver must immediately inform the following, as applicable, of the defect: (a) the driver's employer; (b) if the driver has no employer, the owner of the container. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2; am. B.C. Reg. 116/2022, App. B, s. 10.] Withdrawal from service 12.179 
 &nbsp; (1) In this section, "notified person" means the person notified under section 12.178 (2) that a roll-on/roll-off container has a defect that may be a hazard. (2) On receiving notification under section 12.178 (2), a notified person must (a) withdraw the container from service immediately, or (b) if it is not practical to withdraw the container from service immediately, (i) arrange for the safe removal of the container to a place where it can be unloaded, if necessary, and (ii) have the container repaired. (3) A roll-on/roll-off container that has been withdrawn from service or repaired under this section may not be returned to service until inspected under section 12.180. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Inspection following repair 12.180 
 &nbsp; (1) An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must ensure that a roll-on/roll-off container is inspected by a qualified person after any of the following occur: (a) significant structural modification or refurbishment; (b) significant repair of a structural component; (c) repairs made under section 12.179. (2) The qualified person must determine whether, following the modification, refurbishment or repairs referred to in subsection (1), the container meets the requirements of the container safety standard. (3) An inspection under this section must occur on or before the earlier of the following: (a) 30 days after the making of the modification, refurbishment or repairs referred to in subsection (1); (b) the return of the container to the place where it is ordinarily stored or located. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Periodic inspection 12.181 
 &nbsp; (1) An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must ensure that a qualified person inspects, in accordance with this section, each roll-on/roll-off container to determine if the container meets the requirements of the container safety standard. (2) The first inspection of a container manufactured before February 1, 2015, or for which the date of manufacture is unknown, must occur as follows: (a) if section 12.180 applies, as required by that section; (b) if the container has not previously been inspected under section 12.180, before August 1, 2017; (c) if the owner or employer, as applicable, acquires the container on or after June 2, 2017, but has no record of it being inspected in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection, within 60 days of acquiring it. (3) The first inspection of a container manufactured on or after February 1, 2015, must occur as follows: (a) if section 12.180 applies, as required by that section; (b) if a container has not previously been inspected under section 12.180, before February 1, 2020; (c) if the owner or employer, as applicable, acquires the container on or after December 3, 2019, but has no record of it being inspected in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsection, within 60 days of acquiring it. (4) Subsequent inspections of the container must occur within (a) 30 months of the most recent inspection, whether made under this section or section 12.180, or (b) a shorter period set by a qualified person, having regard to the condition of the container. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Records of inspection 12.182 
 &nbsp; An owner of a roll-on/roll-off container, and an employer, must keep a record for each roll-on/roll-off container that includes all of the following: (a) the date of each inspection made under sections 12.180 and 12.181; (b) details of any tests conducted, including testing methods and results; (c) details of any repairs made; (d) the date before which the next inspection must occur under section 12.181. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Withdrawal from service following inspection 12.183 
 &nbsp; If a qualified person determines, following an inspection under section 12.180 or 12.181, that a roll-on/roll-off container does not meet the container safety standard, the owner of the container, or the employer, must withdraw the container from service (a) until it is repaired to meet the container safety standard, or (b) permanently. [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. D, s. 2.] Part 13 — Ladders, Scaffolds and Temporary Work Platforms Division 1 — General Definitions 13.1 
 &nbsp; In this Part: "boom-supported" means supported by an elevating device that telescopes, articulates, rotates or extends relative to the machine base or vehicle, so that the platform can be positioned completely beyond the base; "boatswain's chair" , also known as a bosun's chair, means a seat attached to a suspended rope designed to accommodate one person in a sitting position; "elevating work platform" means a movable work platform that self-elevates to overhead work locations; "movable work platform" means a work platform that can be re-positioned during the course of the work; "permanent powered platform" means a movable work platform that (a) is raised or lowered by other than manual means, and (b) is permanently installed on or attached to a building or structure; "portable powered platform" means a movable work platform that (a) is raised or lowered by other than manual means, and (b) is not permanently installed on or attached to a building or structure; "scaffold" means any temporary elevated work platform and its supporting structure used for supporting workers, materials or equipment; "self-propelled" means the capability of an elevating work platform to travel under power with the primary controls on the work platform; "swing stage" means a work platform that is raised and lowered by manual or powered hoisting equipment, supported by 2 or more suspension lines; "work platform" means an elevated or suspended temporary work surface used for supporting workers and includes a scaffold and boatswain's chair. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Standards 13.2 
 &nbsp; (1) A ladder, window cleaner's belt or work platform must meet and be used in accordance with (a) the applicable CSA or ANSI standard in effect when the equipment or structure was manufactured, except as otherwise determined by the Board, (b) another standard acceptable to the Board, or (c) if there is no applicable standard under paragraphs (a) or (b), the requirements of a professional engineer. (2) In designing and installing a work platform, appropriate safety factors and minimum rated loads must be used in the materials and method of installation, in accordance with (a) WCB Standard WPL 1, Design, Construction and Use of Wood Frame Scaffolds, 2004 , (b) WCB Standard WPL 2, Design, Construction and Use of Crane Supported Work Platforms, 2004 , (c) WCB Standard WPL 3, Safety Factor and Minimum Breaking Strength for Suspended Work Platforms and Associated Components, 2004 , and (d) WCB Standard LDR 1, Job Built Ladders, 2004 . [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Inspections 13.3 
 &nbsp; A ladder, window cleaner's belt, work platform and associated components must be inspected before use on each shift, and after any modification, and any condition that might endanger workers must be remedied before the equipment is used. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Division 2 — Ladders Manufactured ladders 13.4 
 &nbsp; A manufactured portable ladder must be marked for the grade of material used to construct the ladder and the use for which the ladder is constructed. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Position and stability 13.5 
 &nbsp; (1) A portable ladder must (a) be placed on a firm and level surface, and (b) be of sufficient length to enable the safe performance of the work activity while being used. (2) A portable non-self-supporting ladder must, (a) as shown in Figure 13-1, be positioned so that the ladder is leaning against the vertical plane of support at an approximate angle of 75° when measured from the horizontal plane of support, (b) if the ladder provides access to or egress from an upper landing, (i) project approximately 1&nbsp;m (3&nbsp;ft) above the upper landing, and (ii) be sufficiently secured in place to ensure the stability of the ladder during access to or egress from the upper landing, and (c) if the ladder is not already secured in accordance with paragraph (b) (ii), be sufficiently secured in place to ensure the stability of the ladder during use if conditions exist that are likely to cause the ladder to be unstable. Figure 13-1: Ladder Angle [en. B.C. Reg. 199/2014, App. F, s. 1.] Use restrictions 13.6 &nbsp; (1) If work cannot be done from a ladder without hazard to a worker, a work platform must be provided. (2) A worker must not carry up or down a ladder, heavy or bulky objects or any other objects which may make ascent or descent unsafe. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Division 3 — Work Platforms Access 13.7 
 &nbsp; Safe access must be provided to every work platform. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] General requirements 13.8 
 &nbsp; Each work platform must (a) have sufficient strength to bear the load to be placed on it, and (b) be secured against separation from the supporting equipment, structure or surface to which it is attached. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Lines supporting work platforms 13.9 
 &nbsp; Rigging and lines used to suspend or support work platforms must (a) have sufficient breaking strength to withstand the loads likely to be imposed with the required factor of safety, (b) be free of knots or splices except for terminal eye-splices, (c) be suitable for the purpose for which they are used, (d) be protected from abrasion or other damage from the work environment, (e) be secured to the platform and to an anchorage able to withstand the loads likely to be imposed on them, (f) be of sufficient length to lower the work platform to a safe lower landing, and (g) except for load lines, be used exclusively for suspending the work platform. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Hooks and clamps 13.10 
 &nbsp; (1) Cornice hooks, parapet clamps and thrust-out beams must be secured by tiebacks to a solid anchor on the building or structure. (2) Tiebacks for cornice hooks, parapet clamps and thrust-out beams must, as nearly as is practicable, be rigged at right angles to the building face. (3) Each cornice hook, parapet clamp, hanger or stirrup used to support a swing stage must be manufactured of mild steel or other material having similar ductile properties. (4) Counterweights must be (a) made of solid material not subject to loss of weight through attrition, and (b) secured to the thrust-out beam. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Engineering required 13.11 
 &nbsp; (1) The following must be constructed, installed and used in accordance with the instructions of a professional engineer: (a) bracing for a scaffold, if the scaffold is enclosed by a tarpaulin or any other cover; (b) a scaffold exceeding 38&nbsp;m (125&nbsp;ft) in height; (c) a scaffold exceeding 25&nbsp;m (80&nbsp;ft) in height, if stairways are included as part of the scaffold; (d) a scaffold used to support a temporary floor; (e) a scaffold used to support a crane or hoist, other than a scaffold used to support a manually powered crane or manually powered hoist; (f) a scaffold suspended or cantilevered from a structure; (g) a scaffold system supported by a catenary line; (h) a needle beam scaffold; (i) an outrigger scaffold. (2) Permanent powered platforms must be constructed, installed and used in accordance with the instructions of a professional engineer. (3) If a boat is used as a work platform in a pile driving operation, a professional engineer must certify the integrity of the boat for this purpose. (4) A signed copy of the engineer's instructions or certification referred to in subsections (1) to (3) must be available at the workplace during installation, disassembly and use of the system. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 9/2017, App. I, s. 1.] Removal from service 13.12 
 &nbsp; A work platform must be removed from service until certified safe for use by the manufacturer or a professional engineer if it has (a) been subjected to a sudden drop, (b) been in contact with exposed energized electrical equipment or conductors, or (c) shows signs of any kind of structural or mechanical damage or substantial wear. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Division 4 — Scaffolds Responsibilities 13.13 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that scaffolds used by workers are in a safe condition and are able to withstand the load, regardless of who erected the scaffold. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Scaffold platforms 13.14 
 &nbsp; (1) The platform of each scaffold must (a) be a minimum nominal width of 50 cm (20 in), except that a nominal 30 cm (12 in) wide work platform may be used with ladder jacks, pump jack or similar systems, (b) not leave more than one opening in the work platform, which must be no greater than 25 cm (10 in) in width, and (c) if not level, be designed to ensure adequate footing for workers using the platform. (2) Guardrails may be omitted from the edge of a work platform if (a) the platform is adjacent to a structure that provides protection equivalent to guardrails, and (b) the open space between the platform and the structure is equal to or less than 30 cm (12 in). [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Manufactured components 13.15 
 &nbsp; Major components of scaffolds must be used in accordance with technical data provided by the manufacturer, or in writing by a professional engineer, that (a) shows the rated load, erection procedures and compliance with an applicable standard under section 13.2, and (b) is available at the workplace for reference. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Lumber for structural components 13.16 
 &nbsp; All lumber used to construct a scaffold must be graded and marked to the National Lumber Grades Authority Standard Grading Rules for Canadian Lumber. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Scaffold stability 13.17 
 &nbsp; (1) A scaffold must be erected with the vertical members plumb, and with the ledgers and bearers level. (2) The base of a scaffold must have bearing plates or sills that rest on a solid surface and are sufficient to support the weight of the scaffold. (3) The poles, legs and uprights of a scaffold must be securely and rigidly braced to prevent movement. (4) A scaffold must be effectively guyed or secured to a building or structure (a) if the height of the scaffold exceeds 3 times its minimum base dimension, or (b) in any other circumstances if required for stability. (5) Unless otherwise specified by the manufacturer, height adjustment devices must not extend more than 2/3 of their total length or 60&nbsp;cm (24 in), whichever is less. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Connections 13.18 
 &nbsp; All connections between the parts of a scaffold must be secure. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Electrical hazards 13.19 
 &nbsp; A scaffold must be effectively grounded if (a) it is a metal scaffold and is located close to a high voltage energized electrical conductor or equipment, and (b) a hazardous level of electrical charge is likely to be induced in the scaffold. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Division 5 — Movable Work Platforms Marking of the equipment 13.20 
 &nbsp; (1) The following equipment must be clearly marked with a rated capacity: (a) a platform that is suspended from or attached to a crane or hoist; (b) an elevating work platform; (c) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. D, s. 1.] (d) a swing stage; (e) interchangeable load bearing components of a suspended work platform system. (2) The rated load for allowable thrust-out beam projections must be clearly marked on a thrust-out beam. (3) A swing stage platform, counterweight and hoist unit must each be clearly marked with their own weight. (4) A work platform that is suspended from a crane or hoist or attached to a crane boom must be marked with the weight of the platform and rigging and the rated capacity. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. D, s. 1.] Manuals 13.21 
 &nbsp; (1) For each elevating work platform in use at a workplace, (a) the equipment manufacturer's operation manual must be available at the workplace, and (b) the equipment manufacturer's maintenance manual, containing maintenance instructions and replacement part information, must be reasonably available to workers at the workplace. (2) If either of the manuals required by subsection (1) is not available, the equipment must not be used until (a) the manual is obtained, or (b) written instructions for the safe operation and maintenance of the equipment are supplied by a professional engineer. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Maintenance of records 13.22 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must keep records of inspection, maintenance, repair or modification that meet the requirements of Part 4 (General Conditions) for each (a) elevating work platform, (b) swing stage, and (c) permanent powered platform. (2) If the inspection and maintenance records, other than pre-shift inspections, are not available, the equipment must not be used until it has been inspected and certified safe for use by the manufacturer or a professional engineer. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Testing 13.23 
 &nbsp; (1) A vehicle-mounted elevating work platform and a self-propelled boom-supported elevating work platform must be (a) inspected in accordance with good engineering practice at least every 12 months, and (b) certified in writing by the equipment manufacturer or a professional engineer as complying with this Part and safe for use. (2) to (4) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. C, s. 1.] (5) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 6.] [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 243/2006, s. 6; 312/2012, App. C, s. 1.] Work platforms on wheels 13.24 
 &nbsp; (1) If a movable work platform on wheels is not designed for or intended to be moved along the floor or other supporting surface while a person is occupying the platform, the platform must be secured to prevent that movement before a person accesses or occupies the platform. (2) If a movable work platform is designed for and intended to be moved along the floor or other supporting surface while a person is occupying the platform, the platform must be moved only in the manner and under the conditions specified by the platform's manufacturer. (3) Despite subsection (2), if the height of the work platform of a rolling scaffold that is occupied by a person is (a) not more than one and one half times the least base dimension of the scaffold, the scaffold may be moved by the effort of the person occupying the platform or by the effort of a person on the floor or other supporting surface, (b) more than one and one half times the least base dimension of the scaffold, the scaffold must be moved only by the effort of a person on the floor or other supporting surface, and (c) more than two times the least base dimension of the scaffold, the scaffold must not be moved while the person is occupying the platform. [en. B.C. Reg. 320/2007, App. D, s. 1.] Warning devices on elevating work platforms 13.25 
 &nbsp; (1) An elevating work platform, except a vehicle-mounted work platform, must have a warning system consisting of an intermittent horn or flashing light that (a) is automatically activated during any motion of the work platform, and (b) can be seen or heard by other workers in proximity to the work platform. (2) If the safe operation of an elevating work platform requires its carrier vehicle to be on a level surface or level within specified degrees, the platform must be fitted, as the carrier requires, with a device to warn the operator that (a) the carrier is not level, or (b) the carrier is outside the permitted degrees from level. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Controls on elevating work platforms 13.26 
 &nbsp; The controls for an elevating work platform must (a) be clearly identified to indicate their functions, (b) be "hold-to-run" (continuous pressure) type that return to the neutral or the stop position when released, (c) be protected against inadvertent operation, (d) for each set of controls, be provided with an emergency stop device that is (i) within easy reach of the operator, (ii) clearly labelled STOP, and (iii) coloured red, and (e) include a clearly marked overriding lowering control that will enable a worker at the lower controls to stop and lower the platform in an emergency. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Cranes and hoists used to suspend work platforms 13.27 
 &nbsp; (1) The weight of a work platform suspended from a crane or hoist or attached to a crane boom and its rigging, plus the rated capacity, must not exceed 50% of the rated capacity of the crane or hoist at the working radius or configuration. (2) If a work platform attached to a crane boom causes eccentric loading on the boom, (a) the effect on the rated capacity of the crane must be determined and the rated capacity certified by the crane manufacturer or a professional engineer, and (b) the rated capacity of the crane must be reduced accordingly. (3) The boom of a crane used to suspend a work platform must have a powered boom or a fixed boom. (4) A work platform must not be (a) suspended from an articulating boom crane, or (b) attached to an articulating boom crane, unless the crane manufacturer approves the installation. (5) If workers are on a work platform suspended from a crane, a secondary hoisting line on the crane must not be used. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Two-blocking 13.28 
 &nbsp; (1) A crane or hoist used to raise a work platform on a load line must be equipped with (a) a device to prevent two-blocking at all points, or (b) in the case of a lattice boom crane, a two-blocking warning device. (2) Despite subsection (1), a work procedure acceptable to the Board may be followed to minimize the risk of two-blocking if it is not practicable to maintain a two-blocking prevention or warning device on a conventional lattice boom crane used for pile driving and similar applications. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Hoisting and lowering work platforms 13.29 
 &nbsp; (1) Cranes, winches and other devices used for hoisting and lowering movable work platforms must (a) be operated as slowly as practicable while supporting the work platform, (b) be lowered under power, if the device is powered, and (c) not be equipped with a free running boom or hoisting winch controlled only by brakes. (2) If a movable work platform is suspended from a crane, winch or other device over a structure that cannot safely support its weight or if other hazards exist below the platform, lower limit travel devices compatible with the hoist system must be used to ensure the platform cannot be lowered beyond the safe lower limit of travel. (2.1) If the lower limit travel devices required by subsection (2) are not practicable, the employer must ensure that work procedures acceptable to the Board are used that will minimize the risk of the platform going beyond the safe lower limit of travel. (3) A trial lift for a work platform suspended from or attached to a crane or hoist must be performed at all work locations before the platform is occupied. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 19/2006, s. 5.] Lift truck mounted work platforms 13.30 
 &nbsp; (1) In this section, "work platform" means a movable work platform that is supported by a lift truck. (2) A work platform may be used to support workers only if other conventional means of access for the task, such as ladders, scaffolds and elevating work platforms, are not practicable. (3) An employer must ensure that a work platform intended for use by workers was designed, and is used by workers, in accordance with (a) ANSI/ITSDF B56.1-2009, Safety Standard for Low Lift and High Lift Trucks , if the platform is being used with a high lift truck as defined in Part IV of that standard, or (b) ANSI/ITSDF B56.6-2011, Safety Standard for Rough Terrain Forklift Trucks , if the platform is being used with a rough terrain forklift truck as defined in section 2 of that standard. (4) The employer must ensure that a work platform intended for use by workers is legibly marked in a conspicuous place to show (a) the name of (i) the manufacturer of the platform, or (ii) the professional engineer who certified the platform as having been built to meet the applicable standard referred to in subsection (3), (b) if the platform was built by a manufacturer, (i) the model number and serial number, or (ii) other unique marking or identification that links the platform with the manufacturer's documentation respecting the platform's design and use, (c) if the platform was custom built, the unique identification number or code that links the platform with the professional engineer's documentation for the platform's design and use, (d) the title of the safety standard or standards the platform was designed to meet, (e) the weight of the platform when the platform is empty, (f) the rated load of the platform, and (g) the minimum width, as measured in accordance with subsection (5), and the minimum rated capacity a lift truck must have to support the platform in a manner that complies with the applicable standard in subsection (3) when the platform is loaded to its rated load. (5) The width of a lift truck referred to in subsection (4) (g) must be measured in a straight line from any point on the outer part of the right load bearing tire to the corresponding point on the outer part of the left load bearing tire. (6) The employer must ensure that a qualified person inspects both the work platform and the lift truck supporting the work platform (a) each time the platform is mounted on the lift truck, and (b) at the start of each work shift, if the platform is already mounted on the lift truck at the start of the work shift, to ensure the platform is properly secured to the lift truck and the lift truck and the platform are safe for use. (7) The employer must ensure that the inspections referred to in subsection (6) take place before either the work platform or the lift truck is used by a worker. (8) Only a worker who is qualified and authorized by the employer may operate a work platform, and the lift truck supporting the work platform, for the purpose of supporting workers on the platform. (9) A worker must not operate either a work platform or the lift truck supporting the work platform unless (a) there is effective two-way voice communication between the lift truck operator and a worker on the platform who is designated by the employer to provide the lift truck operator with directions for platform movement, and (b) the lift truck operator and the designated worker on the platform prearrange hand and arm signals, if the voice communication referred to in paragraph (a) relies on the use of a radio or other electronic system, to allow the designated worker to signal the lift truck operator to bring the platform to the ground or floor level in the event the radio or other electronic system fails. (10) A lift truck operator must remain at the controls of the lift truck at all times there are any workers on the platform supported by the lift truck. (11) Before a work platform may be used to support workers, the lift truck operator must conduct a trial lift of the platform, with no workers on the platform, to assess the suitability of the surface bearing the weight of the lift truck and whether the platform is clear of all obstructions, unless (a) the lift truck is on a type of surface the employer has identified as capable of safely supporting the lift truck and the platform when the platform is loaded to its rated load, and (b) the space in and around which the platform is to be raised is clear of all obstructions. [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. D, s. 2.] Powered platforms 13.31 
 &nbsp; If a portable powered platform is raised and lowered by two or more separately controlled hoists operated by one person on the platform, the controls must be located so that they can be used simultaneously by that person. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1.] Work in high risk situations 13.32 
 &nbsp; Before a swing stage, boatswain's chair or portable powered platform is used in any of the following circumstances, a professional engineer must have certified in writing that the design, installation and proposed use of the swing stage, boatswain's chair or portable powered platform, as the case may be, meets the requirements of CSA Standard CAN/CSA Z271-10 Safety code for suspended platforms and CSA Standard CAN/CSA Z91-02 (R2008) Health and Safety Code for Suspended Equipment Operations : (a) one work platform will be used above or below any portion of another work platform, (b) a deck or planking will be used to span a gap between two independent work platforms, (c) the work platform will exceed 10&nbsp;m (32&nbsp;ft) in length, or (d) the suspension height will exceed 91&nbsp;m (300&nbsp;ft). [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 312/2010, App. J; 199/2014, App. E, s. 1.] Fall protection 13.33 
 &nbsp; (1) A person on an elevating work platform must wear a personal fall arrest system secured to a suitable and substantial anchorage point. (1.1) Despite subsection (1), a person on a scissor lift, or on an elevating work platform with similar characteristics to a scissor lift, that is on a firm level surface with no irregularities to cause platform instability, is exempt from wearing a personal fall arrest system, provided that all manufacturer's guardrails and chains are in place. (2) If a person is supported on a work platform suspended by fewer than four suspension lines, the person must use a personal fall arrest system secured to an anchor meeting the requirements of Part 11&nbsp; [Fall Protection] and independent of the work platform and its suspension system. (3) If a person is supported on a work platform suspended by four or more suspension lines, the person must use a personal fall arrest system secured to an anchor on the platform or to an anchor meeting the requirements of Part 11&nbsp; [Fall Protection] and independent of the work platform and its suspension system. (3.1) Despite subsection (3), a person is not required to use a personal fall protection system on an outrigger or suspended mason's scaffold with guardrails on the open sides. (4) Each person on a work platform suspended from a crane or hoist must use a personal fall arrest system with a shock absorbing lanyard, secured to (a) an anchor above the load hook, or (b) an anchor attached to the platform and designated for that purpose by the manufacturer or a professional engineer, provided that the platform has a safety strap that will prevent the platform from falling more than 15 cm (6 in) if the platform becomes dislodged from the hook. (5) Each person on a work platform attached to a crane boom must use a personal fall arrest system secured to an anchor on the boom or on the platform. (6) The personal fall arrest system referred to in subsection (5) must be secured on the boom or on the platform to an anchor that is designated by (a) the manufacturer, or (b) a professional engineer. [en. B.C. Reg. 422/2004, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 19/2006, s. 6; 243/2006, s. 7; 320/2007, App. D, s. 3.] </a