# Part 23 — Oil and Gas

Definitions 23.1 
 &nbsp; In this Part: "derrick" means a stationary or portable structure used to support the hoisting and lowering mechanism on a rig; "flow piping system" means a temporary or portable system of piping and other component parts, including valves and fittings, that is (a) located above ground, and (b) for use to convey to or from a wellhead a liquid under pressure, or a gas under pressure, during drill stem testing, swabbing, cementing, well servicing or well stimulation; "hot work" means work which involves burning, welding, riveting, grinding, using fire or spark producing tools, or other work that produces a source of ignition; "lower explosive limit" means the minimum concentration of combustible gas or vapour in air, expressed as a percentage by volume, that will ignite if a source of ignition is present; "rig" includes a derrick and all equipment that is directly involved with drilling or servicing a well; "well" means an opening in the ground which (a) is made or being made by drilling, boring, or in any other manner (i) for the purpose of obtaining oil, gas or crude bitumen or from which any oil, gas or crude bitumen is obtainable, (ii) for the purpose of developing or using a reservoir for the storage of natural gas, or (iii) for the purpose of obtaining geothermal energy, (b) is made or being made by drilling or boring for the purpose of obtaining water to inject into an underground formation, (c) is used, drilled or being drilled for the purpose of injecting gas, air, water, or other substance or a form of energy into an underground formation, (d) is an evaluation well, (e) is a test hole, or (f) is drilled or being drilled to a depth of more than 600&nbsp;m (2&nbsp;000&nbsp;ft) to obtain geological or geophysical information. [am. B.C. Regs. 258/2008, App. G, s. 1; 142/2017, s. 1.] General Requirements Application 23.2 
 &nbsp; This Part applies to (a) the exploration for oil, gas, crude bitumen, or geothermal energy, (b) drilling, operating and servicing a well, (c) producing, distributing and refining oil, gas, crude bitumen or geothermal energy from a well, and (d) ancillary processes associated with paragraphs (a) to (c). Repealed 23.3 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 23.] Coordination of multi-employer workplaces 23.4 
 &nbsp; (1) If an activity involves the work of 2 or more employers or their workers, each employer must notify the owner, or the person engaged by the owner to be the prime contractor, in advance of any undertaking likely to create a hazard for a worker of another employer. (2) If a work location has overlapping or adjoining work activities of 2 or more employers that create a hazard to workers, (a) the owner, or if the owner engages another person to be the prime contractor, then that person, must (i) appoint a qualified coordinator for the purpose of ensuring the coordination of health and safety activities for the location, and (ii) provide up-to-date information as specified in subsection (4) readily available on site, and (b) each employer must give the coordinator appointed under subsection (2) (a) (i) the name of a qualified person designated to be responsible for that employer's site health and safety activities. (3) The duties of the qualified coordinator appointed under subsection (2) (a) (i) include (a) informing employers and workers of the hazards created, and (b) ensuring that the hazards are addressed throughout the duration of the work activities. (4) The information required by subsection (2) (a) (ii) includes (a) the name of the qualified coordinator appointed under subsection (2) (a) (i), (b) a site drawing, which must be posted, showing project layout, first aid location, emergency transportation provisions, and the evacuation marshalling station, and (c) a set of work procedures designed to protect the health and safety of workers at the workplace, developed in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation. [am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 68.] Safe work procedures 23.5 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must identify the work activities or circumstances, including releases of gases, that have caused or may cause significant risk of injury or occupational disease to workers. (2) The employer must analyze the risks arising out of the work activities or circumstances identified under subsection (1) and implement safe work procedures if the activities or circumstances create a hazard. (3) The procedures implemented under subsection (2) must state the number of workers involved, the steps to be followed and the safety equipment required. Control of static electricity 23.6 
 &nbsp; (1) When flammable liquids or finely divided materials which may produce a dust which is flammable or explosive are being transferred between containers, the containers must be (a) in firm contact with each other, and (b) continuously electrically bonded throughout the transfer to prevent accumulation of a static electric charge. (2) If tanks, mixers or processing vessels are used for flammable or explosive substances, they must be electrically bonded and grounded while the contents are being transferred. (3) A wellhead may be used as a ground (a) for dissipating static electricity, and (b) if tested and proved acceptable, for an electrical distribution system. [am. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 2.] Fire hazards 23.7 
 &nbsp; (1) Smoking is prohibited on or about a rig, within 25&nbsp;m (80&nbsp;ft) of the well bore and within 25&nbsp;m (80&nbsp;ft) of any well, production facility or gas processing plant. (2) Open flames are prohibited within 25&nbsp;m (80&nbsp;ft) of the well bore whenever gas may be emitted from the well or any other source. (3) If iron sulfide is removed from a tank (a) the iron sulfide must be kept wetted down until safely disposed of, and (b) other materials and equipment which are contaminated must be kept wetted down or kept in an inert atmosphere until cleaned. Control of ignition sources 23.8 
 &nbsp; (1) If regular monitoring and hotwork permits are not in use to control ignition sources (a) internal combustion engines must be shut down within the zone defined by the BC Electrical Code and the Drilling and Production Regulation as a Class 1 Division 2 or higher classification, unless their operation is integral to the work process, and (b) diesel engines required to operate within the zone defined by the BC Electrical Code and the Drilling and Production Regulation as a Class 1 Division 2 or higher classification must have a positive air shutoff or other effective method for engine shut down. (2) Mobile equipment powered by a diesel engine and used for maintenance or repair work on pressurized gathering, distribution and transmission equipment must have a positive air shutoff or other effective method of engine shut down. Flare pits and flare lines 23.9 
 &nbsp; (1) Written safe work procedures must be implemented to ensure the safety of workers lighting or operating a flare tip, flare stack or flare line. (2) Workers must be instructed in the application of the written work procedures required by subsection (1). (3) Before workers enter a flare system danger area where the installation is temporary and remote ignition of the pilot is not feasible (a) the flare line must be isolated, and (b) contaminants in the flare pit area must be less than 20% of the lower explosive limit. (4) The location of a flare pit or stack must not interfere with safe access to the work area. (5) If feasible, there must be a continuous ignition source before flow to a flare pit or stack occurs. Fire extinguishers 23.10 
 &nbsp; (1) Non-freezing fire extinguishers, other firefighting equipment and firefighting personnel must be provided as required by subsections (2), (3) and (4) and Table 23-1. (2) The minimum requirements for a twin agent unit are (a) 1&nbsp;100 litres (250 imp gal) pre-mixed ATC foam solution at 6%, (b) 680 kg (1 500 lbs) potassium bicarbonate dry chemical system, (c) 30&nbsp;m (100&nbsp;ft) discharge hose, and (d) two firefighting personnel. (3) The minimum requirements for a continuous foam unit are (a) 475 litres (100 imp gal) ATC foam concentrate, (b) 680 kg (1 500 lbs) potassium bicarbonate dry chemical system, (c) 1 900 litres (400 imp gal) per minute centrifugal certified fire pump with one 65 mm (2.5 in) discharge port, two 38 mm (1.5 in) discharge ports, and one 125 mm (5 in) suction port, and (d) two firefighting personnel. (4) Firefighting equipment must meet the requirements of NFPA 10, Portable Fire Extinguishers, 1990 Edition . [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Table 23-1: Minimum requirements for firefighting equipment Work activity Number of extinguishers required Type of extinguisher Heavy hauler 1 20-BC Hot oiler 2 20-BC Seismic shot hole drill 2 20-BC Drilling rig 4 40-BC Service rig 4 40-BC Battery operator 1 20-BC Fluid hauler 1 40-BC Service truck of 1 tonne capacity or more 1 20-BC Any other commercial vehicle 1 5-BC Any vehicle carrying explosives 2 4-A:40-B:C Welder 1 10-BC Well testing 2 10-BC 1 fracturing tank 1 Twin agent unit 2, 3 or 4 fracturing tanks 1 Continuous foam unit with 100 barrel water truck 5 or more fracturing tanks or greater than 40% methanol water fracturing The fire hazard must be evaluated in accordance with current industry standards, and firefighting equipment and personnel must be provided as determined necessary by the evaluation. [am. B.C. Reg. 207/2021, App. A, s. 74.] Air operating systems 23.11 
 &nbsp; (1) Alcohol must not be added to air lines at the air intake side of a compressor. (2) The air in the alcohol injection system must be bled down to atmospheric pressure before opening an air operating system to inject alcohol. (3) If an air operating system supplies air for breathing purposes, the alcohol injection system must be isolated, the system purged of old air, and air purifying systems placed between existing piping and workers using the breathing system. Pipelines, fittings and valves 23.12 
 &nbsp; (1) Pipelines, piping systems, fittings and valves must (a) be designed, constructed and maintained to safely withstand the anticipated internal pressures and external loads, (b) be restrained from undue horizontal, vertical or swinging motion, and (c) if applicable, meet the requirements of (i) CSA Standard Z662-94, Oil and Gas Pipeline Systems , or (ii) API Recommended Practice 520, Sizing, Selection, and Installation of Pressure-Relieving Devices in Refineries, Part I — Sizing and Selection (July 1990, 5th Edition) and Part II — Installation (November 1988, 3rd Edition) , or (iii) API Recommended Practice 521, Guide for Pressure-relieving and Depressuring Systems, dated November, 1990 (3rd edition) , or (iv) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Standard B31.3-1993, Chemical Plant and Petroleum Refinery Piping . (v) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 24 (d).] (2) When a valve is to be disassembled (a) it must be depressurized, purged or otherwise made safe, and (b) written safe work procedures must be followed. (3) Process control and power systems must be designed to operate on the gas being used. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 24.] Hose connections 23.13 
 &nbsp; (1) Hoses and fittings must be of a design suitable for the type of service for which they are used. (2) Quick connect fittings must be identified or have hardware controls to ensure connection only to the correct service. (3) Quick connect fittings for breathing air service must be different from and not compatible for connection to any other service. (4) Temporary piping and hose systems for hazardous fluids must be effectively protected from damage. Pumps 23.14 
 &nbsp; (1) A positive displacement pump and attachments must have valves, pipes and fittings capable of withstanding the pump's maximum working pressure. (2) A quick closing type valve must not be used on the discharge line of a positive displacement pump. (3) A positive displacement pump must be protected against freezing. (4) Except for a pumping wellhead, a pressure relief device must be installed on the discharge side of a positive displacement pump, but a valve must not be installed between them. (5) For a wellhead utilizing a down-hole positive displacement pump, the employer must implement measures to prevent the pump from causing pressures that exceed the pressure rating of the system. [am. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 12.] Repealed 23.15- 23.16 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2012, App. B, s. 1.] Pipe racks 23.17 
 &nbsp; (1) Pipe racks and tubs must be placed on a level and firm surface. (2) Pipe, tubular goods or similar round material must be prevented from accidentally rolling off a pipe rack. (3) Spacers must be used between the layers of pipe or other material on a pipe rack. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. C, s. 7.] Handling pipe 23.18 
 &nbsp; (1) Pipes or tubular goods must be restrained from uncontrolled movement. (2) Deck pins used to restrain pipes must (a) be at least 45 cm (18 in) high, and extend beyond the centre line of the pipe closest to the pins, or (b) if the pipe is tiered, extend one pipe diameter above the pipe closest to the pins. (3) Deck pins are not required if specialized dunnage is used. (4) Pipes or tubular goods must be adequately secured before restraining devices are removed. (5) While pipe is being loaded, unloaded or transferred, workers must not be on top of an unsecured load, between the load and the pipe racks or tubs, or in any other area made hazardous by potential pipe movement. (6) When pipe is being transferred between pipe racks, catwalks, or trucks, temporary supports or skids must be constructed, placed and anchored so that they will support the load placed upon them. (7) When transferring drill collars, tubular goods or other similar materials which are not provided with shoulders, pick up subs or other appropriate pipe handling equipment must be used. (8) A nubbin must not be used to pick up drill collars, tubular goods or similar materials unless the nubbin is equipped with a wire rope safety line and swivel for attachment to the elevator bails. (9) A trailer used as a pipe rack during drilling, servicing or pipe salvaging must have a guard, along the full length of both sides of the trailer, designed and constructed to ensure that when a pipe is hoisted into the derrick, the lower end of the pipe will not roll off the trailer. (10) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 2.] (11) Pipes must be loaded on or unloaded from a truck one layer at a time. [am. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 2.] Kelly hose and safety lines 23.19 
 &nbsp; (1) Clamps and wire rope safety lines or chains must be used to fasten the kelly hose at the standpipe end to the derrick and at the swivel end of the swivel housing. (2) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 51.] (3) Shock hoses from pump to standpipe must be restrained by safety lines if they are subject to whipping. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 51.] Catheads 23.20 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that workers do not use friction catheads after April&nbsp;14,&nbsp;1999. Rigging up and tearing out 23.21 
 &nbsp; (1) The driver of a vehicle used for rigging up or tearing out equipment must not move the vehicle until signalled to move by a qualified signaller. (2) The signaller must ensure that workers are clear of the path of the vehicle, load and load line. (3) To prevent materials or equipment from rolling or sliding off a truck or trailer during unloading operations, load tie down devices must not be removed until the lifting slings and hoist line have been attached to the equipment or material that may slide or roll off, and slack in the hoist line and rigging has been taken up. (4) A worker must not remain or ride on a load or part of a load being raised, lowered or moved. (5) The movement of a load being raised or lowered must be controlled by (a) a tag line long enough to ensure that the worker controlling it cannot be struck by the load, or (b) where a helicopter is being used, by effective work procedures. (6) A worker must not work, stand or pass (a) under a suspended load, (b) between the winch mechanisms and a load being winched, or (c) in areas where the worker may be injured due to winch line or mechanism failure. (7) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 52.] (8) Winch mechanisms, lines, slings, hooks and fittings must be inspected thoroughly by the equipment operator (a) before commencing work, and (b) at such intervals as the nature of the work may require. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 52.] Driver training 23.22 
 &nbsp; A vehicle driver in the oil and gas industry must, before operating a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating greater than 5 500 kg (12&nbsp;000 lbs.), (a) be certified in the applicable Energy Safety Canada driver training course acceptable to the Board, or (b) have completed driver training providing skills and knowledge for safe driving equivalent to or better than those required by paragraph (a). [en. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. F, s. 2.] Steep slopes 23.23 
 &nbsp; (1) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 53.] (2) If material or equipment must be moved on steep terrain, a written plan must be prepared before snubbing or yo-yo operations are carried out. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 53.] Roads 23.24 
 &nbsp; Roads, bridges and other structures forming part of the road system used by mobile equipment to transport workers, equipment or materials in connection with operations covered by this Part must meet the requirements for roads and road maintenance in Part 26 (Forestry Operations and Similar Activities). Transporting liquids 23.25 
 &nbsp; Liquids must be transported in properly designed and constructed tanks or vessels. Gauging 23.26 
 &nbsp; A tank which contains or may contain a fluid with hydrogen sulfide as a component must have an external means of gauging its contents, or if manual gauging or sampling is required, the worker doing the gauging or sampling must use a supplied air respirator meeting the requirements of Part 8 (Personal Protective Clothing and Equipment) for use in an IDLH atmosphere, and must be visually monitored by another worker equipped with an equivalent respirator and capable of effecting a rescue of the worker doing the gauging or sampling. Liquefied gas used for purging or gauging operations or well stimulation 23.26.1 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that workers are protected from hazards that may be caused by the release of liquefied gas being used for purging or gauging operations or well stimulation. [en. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 3.] Geophysical Operations Power line and upset hazards 23.27 
 &nbsp; The drill mast must be lowered if equipment is being moved and there is a danger of (a) the mast contacting power lines or other overhead obstructions, or (b) the unit losing stability. Seismic drills 23.28 
 &nbsp; (1) A seismic drill must have an emergency engine stopping device which is clearly identified, within reach of the drill operator at the drilling position, and tested daily. (2) Two workers must be present on the same shot hole while drilling. Communications on vehicles 23.29 
 &nbsp; If a worker rides on a seismic line truck to perform work, there must be an effective means of communication between the driver and the worker. Repealed 23.30 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 4.] Drilling and Servicing Rigs Size of work area 23.31 
 &nbsp; The owner must ensure that the work area is sized, constructed and laid out so that (a) all the required equipment may be safely moved and operated, and (b) emergency response activities may be carried out. (c) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. C, s. 8 (c).] [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. C, s. 8.] Inspection and repair 23.32 
 &nbsp; (1) Each drilling and service rig must be inspected and repaired in accordance with the following applicable standards published by the Canadian Association of Oilwell Drilling Contractors: (a) Recommended Practice 1.0, for Drilling Rigs, Mast Inspection and Certification, January 1, 1994; (b) Recommended Practice 2.0, for Drilling Rigs, Overhead Equipment Inspection and Certification, January 1, 1994; (c) Recommended Practice 3.0, for Service Rigs, Inspection and Certification of Masts, January 1, 1994; (d) Recommended Practice 4.0, for Service Rigs, Overhead Equipment Inspection and Certification, January 1, 1994; (e) Recommended Practice 1.0A, Addendum for Drilling Rigs, Substructure Inspection and Certification, September 12, 1995. (2) Inspections and repairs must be recorded in a Canadian Association of Oilwell Drilling Contractors log book or equivalent log acceptable to the Board. (3) The log must be available on site for review by an officer. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Rig moves 23.33 
 &nbsp; (1) The raising and lowering of a derrick must be done under the direct supervision of the rig manager or other qualified person. (2) When hoisting a mast section, rigging must be attached to designated lifting points only. (3) Lifting points must be clearly marked on each mast section of the derrick. List of weights 23.34 
 &nbsp; A master list of the weight of rig components must be kept on site. Prohibited work areas 23.35 
 &nbsp; Except for the operator at the controls, workers are prohibited from being on, in or beneath a derrick being raised, lowered or telescoped. SCBA 23.36 
 &nbsp; On each drilling and service rig there must be a minimum of 4 self-contained breathing apparatus in good working order, 2 together in each of 2 separate opposite locations, so that 2 apparatus are always accessible regardless of wind direction. Blowout preventers 23.37 
 &nbsp; (1) When installing a blowout preventer (a) the preventer must be effectively restrained while it is being aligned, and (b) workers are prohibited from being located where they may be injured if the preventer swings or drops. (2) When removing a blowout preventer, 2 opposing anchor lines must remain in position until (a) the lifting sling is attached to the preventer, (b) the slack in the hoisting line and rigging is taken up, and (c) the draw works brake handle is tied down. Spudding in 23.38 
 &nbsp; Spudding in must not start until (a) all guards are in place, (b) all platforms, stairways and handrails are installed and securely fastened, (c) the escape line, anchors and safety buggy are installed and inspected, and (d) all connecting pins are secured against dislodgment. Emergency escape systems 23.39.1 
 &nbsp; A drilling or service derrick must have an emergency means of escape from the racking board that complies with section 23.39.2 or 23.39.3. [en. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 5.] Emergency escape system 1 23.39.2 
 &nbsp; (1) A drilling or service derrick must have a specially rigged and securely anchored line as an emergency means of escape that (a) provides a ready means of escape from the racking board, (b) consists of a wire rope not less than 13 mm (1/2 in) diameter, (c) has a length twice the vertical distance between the ground and the point at which it is attached to the derrick, (d) is effectively anchored and able to withstand a load of 13.3 kN (3&nbsp;000 lbs), and (e) is kept free of obstructions. (2) Equipment must not be placed, and vehicles must not pass, under the last 15&nbsp;m (50&nbsp;ft) of the escape line. (3) A safety buggy of a design acceptable to the Board must be installed and operated on the escape line. (4) The safety buggy required under subsection (3) must be (a) kept at the racking board, (b) provided with an effective brake and means to prevent the trolley from coming off the escape line, and (c) inspected by a qualified person at least once a week. (5) The escape line must be tensioned so that a person seated in the safety buggy will touch the ground at a safe distance from the derrick, not less than 6&nbsp;m (20&nbsp;ft) from the ground level anchor. [am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. B, s. 54; 258/2008, App. G, ss. 5 and 6.] Emergency escape system 2 23.39.3 
 &nbsp; (1) A drilling or service derrick must have an emergency means of escape that (a) is available for use at the racking board whenever a person is working at that level during drilling or well servicing operations, (b) is able to simultaneously and safely transport all persons from the racking board level, either individually or as a group, to a location at ground level removed from the source of danger, (c) shields the persons using the system from any danger coming from the well bore during the descent or separates the persons using the system from such danger during the descent, (d) has a means to keep the persons using the system from falling out of or off of the emergency means of escape during descent, and (e) has a means, either automatic or manually controlled, to control the rate of descent to a speed that minimizes the risk of injury to the persons using the system when they near ground level. (2) The placement of equipment and the movement of vehicles in the area under the emergency means of escape required under subsection (1) must be controlled so as to ensure the emergency means of escape can be safely used. (3) The emergency means of escape required under subsection (1) must be inspected and tested in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions (a) each time the derrick is erected, before a person works at the racking board during drilling or well servicing operations, and (b) at least once each month when the rig is being used for drilling or well servicing operations and a person is working at the racking board. (4) Each person assigned to work at the racking board during drilling or well servicing operations must (a) have demonstrated proficiency in the use of the type of emergency escape system installed on the rig, and (b) participate in drills and receive retraining as necessary to ensure ongoing proficiency in the use of the escape system installed on the rig. [en. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 7.] Draw works controls 23.40 
 &nbsp; (1) If dual purpose controls are used for automatic catheads, a locking device must be installed to prevent one cathead from being accidentally engaged while the other is operating. (2) The function of each draw works control must be clearly identified. (3) If a control may become engaged because of accidental contact with lines or other equipment, the control must be suitably guarded. Stabbing boards 23.41 
 &nbsp; (1) A stabbing board must be used by a worker located above the derrick floor during the running of casing or tubing, or well servicing operations. (2) A wooden stabbing board must (a) be fitted with expanded metal or wire rope fastened to the underside and along the full length of the board, (b) have each end of the board secured to the derrick by a wire rope of not less than 13 mm (1/2 in) diameter, or chain of at least equivalent strength, and (c) be at least 30 cm (12 in) wide. (3) A metal platform of equal width and strength may be used in place of a wooden stabbing board. (4) At the stabbing board, a personal fall protection system must be attached to (a) wire rope with a breaking strength of not less than 40 kN (9&nbsp;000 lbs) stretched across the derrick at a location approximately 2&nbsp;m (7&nbsp;ft) above the stabbing board, (b) a cross-member of the derrick structure at a point approximately 2&nbsp;m (7&nbsp;ft) above the stabbing board, or (c) a solid support secured across the derrick at a location approximately 2&nbsp;m (7&nbsp;ft) above the stabbing board. Derrick enclosures 23.42 
 &nbsp; (1) Engine rooms, pump houses, derrick floors and derrickhand platforms must be enclosed to a sufficient height to provide protection against the weather. (2) When erecting, maintaining or dismantling derrick enclosures (a) safe work procedures must be implemented, and (b) where practicable, a safe work platform must be provided. (3) Workers are prohibited from straddling or climbing onto prefabricated wall panels during erection, maintenance or dismantling of derrick enclosures. (4) Safe exits must be provided directly to the outside on each of at least 3 sides of the derrick floor enclosure. (5) The pump house enclosure must have at least 2 doors, opening in different directions to the outside. (6) Exit doors of a derrick enclosure and the doors of the doghouse must (a) open outward from the derrick floor, and (b) not be held closed with a lock or outside latch when workers are employed on the derrick floor. Ventilation openings 23.43 
 &nbsp; (1) Before commencing drill stem tests, swabbing, bailing, or displacement with gas or oil (a) derrick enclosures must be altered to provide openings at least 1.8&nbsp;m (6&nbsp;ft) high and 2.4&nbsp;m (8&nbsp;ft) wide on opposite sides above, and on 2 sides below, the derrick floor, or (b) adequate mechanical ventilation or monitoring must be provided. (2) If it is not practicable to provide openings as specified in subsection (1) (a), several openings must be made providing a total area of at least 4.5 sq&nbsp;m (50 sq&nbsp;ft) on each side. (3) If mechanical ventilation is used (a) it must be installed on the mud tank side, (b) it must be able to completely change the air in the substructure every 2&nbsp;minutes, and (c) at least one opening must be provided in the front of the substructure to allow for adequate inflow of makeup air. (4) During cold weather, ventilation procedures must not compromise the well control systems. Pits and tanks 23.44 
 &nbsp; (1) Any pit or tank used for the circulation of flammable material must be isolated from sources of ignition. (2) If a pit or tank is enclosed, adequate mechanical ventilation must be provided. Ladder platforms 23.45 
 &nbsp; (1) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. J, s. 8 (a).] (2) A personal fall arrest system meeting the requirements of Part 11 (Fall Protection) may be used in place of a ladder safety system where such ladder system is required by the standard referenced in Part 13 (Ladders, Scaffolds and Temporary Work Platforms). (3) Ladder platforms must be located as follows: (a) on a triple-stand derrick, 2 or more between the floor and the derrickhand platform, and one or more between the derrickhand platform and the crown; (b) on a double-stand derrick, one or more between the floor and the derrickhand platform; (c) on a single-stand derrick, one platform at the level of the derrickhand platform; (d) at the crown of each drilling rig. (4) The platforms required by subsection (3) must, as far as practicable, be equally spaced, but not more than 9&nbsp;m (30&nbsp;ft) apart. [am. B.C. Regs. 312/2003, App. J, s. 8; 422/2004, s. 2.] Derrick floor access stairways 23.46 
 &nbsp; (1) On each drilling and service rig, a stairway must be installed beside the ramp and must extend from the ground to the derrick floor. (2) The catwalk must be provided with a stairway at the outer end. Guardrails 23.47 
 &nbsp; (1) Guardrails installed on the walkways and platforms of mud tanks must have (a) a horizontal top rail not less than 90 cm (36 in) nor more than 1.1&nbsp;m (42 in) high, and (b) posts or uprights spaced not more than 3&nbsp;m (10&nbsp;ft) apart. (2) Guardrails must be installed on (a) the outer perimeter of all mud tank hinged wing platforms or walkways, and (b) both sides of walkways located over mud tanks. (3) Wire rope of not less than 10 mm (3/8 in) diameter, or chain of equivalent strength, may be substituted for guardrails on mud tank walkways if the ropes or chains are rigged and maintained at the required height and kept taut. (4) Floor openings, elevated walkways and platforms must have toeboards meeting the requirements of Part 4 (General Conditions) if the height exceeds 3&nbsp;m (10&nbsp;ft) above grade. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 24.] Hoisting lines 23.48 
 &nbsp; A minimum of 5 wraps of the hoisting line must be maintained on the drum of the draw works to eliminate strain on the drum line anchorage. Travelling blocks 23.49 
 &nbsp; (1) Travelling blocks, hooks, elevators, elevator links and other units of travelling equipment on a rig must be free of projecting bolts, nuts, pins or parts. (2) If a travelling block is being used on a rig, an upward travel limiting device must be provided to prevent the travelling block from contacting the crown block or structure. (3) The upward travel limiting device required by subsection (2) must (a) operate by disengaging the hoisting drum from its power source and applying the hoisting drum brake, and (b) be tested on each shift. Hand guards 23.50 
 &nbsp; A worker must not handle moving hoisting lines, unless using a secured spooling device from a safe location. Riding hoisting equipment 23.51 
 &nbsp; (1) A worker must not ride the travelling block hook, or elevators, nor slide down any pipe, kelly hose, cable or rope line. (2) In an emergency an injured worker may be lowered from the derrick by means of the travelling block or a tugger if the rotary table is stopped, and a qualified worker operates the controls. (3) If the hoisting equipment to be used under subsection (2) is not rated by the hoist manufacturer for hoisting personnel, training with the equipment must be done without suspending or supporting a person with the load line of the hoisting equipment. [am. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 8.] Guards 23.52 
 &nbsp; (1) Guards of sufficient strength to contain broken parts must be installed at the draw works and rotary table drives of each rig. (2) Substantial guards of sufficient height must be installed in front of the hoisting drums on a rig to prevent workers from contacting them. (3) If headache-posts on a rig rotate, the top and bottom ends must be guarded to contain the post should the shaft fracture. Crown blocks 23.53 
 &nbsp; If bumper blocks are attached to the underside of the crown beams on a rig, a safety cable or its equivalent must be (a) fastened along the full length of the bumper blocks, and (b) secured at both ends to the derrick. Securing fingers 23.54 
 &nbsp; The unsupported ends of derrickhand platform fingers must be connected to the platform frame by wire rope not less than 13 mm (1/2 in) in diameter, or chain of at least equivalent strength. Counterweight safety lines 23.55 
 &nbsp; A counterweight above the derrick floor which is not fully enclosed or running in permanent guides must be secured to the derrick frame by a wire rope safety line that is not less than 16 mm (5/8 in) in diameter, and of a length that will prevent the counterweight from coming within 2.4&nbsp;m (8&nbsp;ft) of the rig floor. Weight indicators 23.56 
 &nbsp; A drilling rig must have a reliable load weight indicator, and if it is hung above the floor it must be secured by a wire rope or chain safety line. Brakes 23.57 
 &nbsp; (1) The brakes on the draw works of a drilling rig, and on a service rig used for drilling, must be tested at the beginning of each crew shift, and inspected at weekly intervals. (2) A rig engaged in drilling operations must be equipped with an automatic feed control. (3) If a hold down chain is used to secure the draw works brake handle, the chain must be attached to the brake handle in a manner which prevents accidental disengagement of the chain. (4) Loss of brake pressure due to cooling of the brake drum mechanism must be prevented. (5) The operator of the draw works must not leave the controls unattended while the hoisting drum is in motion, except when drilling. Drill pipes, collars and tubing 23.58 
 &nbsp; (1) Whenever drill pipes, drill collars or tubing are racked in a derrick, provision must be made for the complete drainage of any fluids or gases in the stands. (2) Before drill pipe, drill collar, tubing or casing is run in a well bore, it must be free from ice plugs or other obstructions. (3) Except while being moved, drill pipes, collars, tubing, casing and rods racked in a derrick must be secured at the top end by means of tieback ropes or equivalent devices to prevent them from falling out of or across the derrick. Mud cans 23.59 
 &nbsp; Whenever a wet joint, or stand of pipe or tubing, is being unscrewed and disconnected above the derrick floor, a mud can must be used to convey any liquids through a pipe to the mud tank or sump. Rotary tongs 23.60 
 &nbsp; Rotary tongs must have (a) a primary safety device to prevent uncontrolled movement of the tongs, and (b) a secondary safety device that will activate if the primary device fails. Rotary table 23.61 
 &nbsp; (1) If visibility on the rig floor is obscured, workers must not work there while the rotary table is in motion. (2) Hoses, lines or chains must not be operated or handled near a rotary table while it is in motion. (3) The rotary table must not be engaged until all workers are clear of the rotary table. Fuel storage 23.62 
 &nbsp; Except for fuel in the primary supply tanks of operating equipment, gasoline or other liquid fuel must not be stored within 25&nbsp;m (80&nbsp;ft) of a well. Guylines 23.63 
 &nbsp; (1) Derrick guylines must be secured to adequate ground anchors. (2) Derrick guylines and ground anchors must be installed according to the requirements of the manufacturer, a professional engineer, or the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice RP 4G-1992, Maintenance and Use of Drilling and Well Servicing Structures, First Edition, January 1, 1992. (3) Permanent ground anchors must be designed and installed so they will be effective all year round. (4) Temporary ground anchors must be pull tested before initial use and, if they continue to be used, tested annually and whenever they may have been affected by seasonal changes. (5) The manufacturer's specifications for the correct number of guylines and spacing must be legibly marked on a plate affixed to the derrick, or on a specification sheet posted at the rig. (6) The prime contractor or owner must ensure that documentation is available on site showing that ground anchors meet the requirements of this Part, and that such documentation is signed by the person responsible for the adequacy of the anchors. [am. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. G, s. 1.] Drill Stem Testing, Swabbing, Cementing, Well Servicing and Stimulation General requirements 23.64 
 &nbsp; (1) Drill stem testing procedures must conform to Alberta Recommended Practices for Well Testing and Fluid Handling, ARP 4.1 Drill Stem Testing, June, 1993 . (2) During drill stem testing (a) motors and engines or other sources of ignition not required for the operation must be shut off, and (b) motor vehicles must not be permitted within 25&nbsp;m (80&nbsp;ft) of the well bore. (3) The rig manager, testing supervisor and, if required, representatives of other contractors doing work must be present to ensure that (a) workers are trained to carry out their responsibilities during the test, and (b) the equipment supplied is in good repair and will function as designed. (4) If liquids are recovered during drill stem tests (a) the liquids must be reverse circulated from the drill pipe, (b) prior to reverse circulating, drill pipe may be pulled from the hole using test plugs on every joint of drill pipe disconnected, until well fluids are encountered at the surface, and (c) if reverse circulation is not practicable due to a failure of the pump out sub, the drill pipe may continue to be tripped out of the hole with extreme caution, using test plugs and a mud can. (5) If test fluid recovery is encountered during darkness (a) the liquids recovered must be reverse circulated, and (b) if reverse circulation is not practicable due to failure of the pump out sub, additional drill pipe must not be pulled and disconnected until daylight. (6) Whenever oil, water or gas has been encountered during drill stem testing, (a) tests for the presence of hydrogen sulfide must be done, and (b) if hydrogen sulfide is found, the sour fluids encountered must be reverse circulated to a vented tank not less than 50&nbsp;m (165&nbsp;ft) from the well, or to a flare pit. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Snubbing operations 23.64.1 
 &nbsp; A snubbing operation must be carried out in accordance with recognized industry safe work practices. [en. B.C. Reg. 258/2008, App. G, s. 9.] Swabbing at night 23.65 
 &nbsp; When swabbing at night (a) auxiliary lighting providing a minimum illumination of 54 lux (5 fc) measured 50 cm (20 in) above the travelled surface must be provided, (b) rig lighting which is not explosion proof must be turned off, (c) the sandline depthometer must be used to supplement the sandline flags, (d) the sandline flags must be illuminated and acid resistant, (e) adequately illuminated wind direction indicators must be placed at appropriate locations around the site, and (f) a wellsite supervisor must remain on site at all times. Gauging 23.66 
 &nbsp; A swabbing tank must have an external means of gauging its contents. Disposal of fluids 23.67 
 &nbsp; (1) Fluids used in or resulting from swabbing must be piped directly through a degasser to a battery, skid tank, mobile trailer tank or tank truck, located not less than 50&nbsp;m (165&nbsp;ft) from the well bore. (2) If fluids used in or resulting from swabbing are being piped into a tank truck the tank truck engine must be shut off, and the driver must not remain in the truck cab. Air intake and exhaust 23.68 
 &nbsp; During well servicing (a) the air intake and exhaust of the pump motor must be located not less than 6&nbsp;m (20&nbsp;ft) from the rig tank while the pump is circulating hydrocarbons, and (b) the tank truck must be located on the far side of the rig tank from the well bore and at a distance not less than 6&nbsp;m (20&nbsp;ft) from the rig tank during loading and unloading. Flow piping systems — integrity assurance program 23.69 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must develop and implement a program for the purpose of ensuring the integrity of the flow piping systems at the worksite. (2) In fulfilling the requirements of subsection (1), the employer must consider the conditions under which each flow piping system may operate, including corrosion factors and fluctuating temperatures and pressures, and the program must include provision for the following elements: (a) routine inspections, non-destructive testing and pressure testing of piping and other component parts of each flow piping system, including setting out in writing, for each type of part to be inspected and tested, (i) the inspection and testing procedures, (ii) the frequency of inspection and testing and how the frequency is to be determined, (iii) the criteria for rejection of a type of part and its removal from service, and (iv) the method of determining how frequently a type of part is to be replaced, including the basis for replacement; (b) preparing, updating and making readily available at the worksite an up­to­date document, relating to the inspections and testing referred to in paragraph (a), that identifies each part that has been inspected and tested, and sets out, for that part, (i) the inspection and testing procedures followed, (ii) the results of the inspection and testing, and (iii) if a part has been rejected, the rejection criteria applied; (c) periodic reviews and updates of the program; (d) a system of preparing and retaining records in relation to each element of the program. (3) The employer must assign to a qualified person responsibility for administration of the program referred to in subsection (1). [en. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 4.] Flow piping systems — selection, installation and operation 23.69.1 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that (a) each flow piping system at the worksite is (i) selected based on the manufacturer's specifications, having regard to the system's anticipated operation, and (ii) installed and operated in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and specifications, and (b) copies of all of the manufacturer's instructions and specifications in relation to the flow piping systems are readily available at the worksite. [en. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 4.] Flow piping systems — restraint systems 23.69.2 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must ensure that each flow piping system at the worksite is restrained by an engineered restraint system that is designed and manufactured (a) to be used for the purpose of safely restraining the flow piping system, and (b) to withstand the forces that may be encountered if the flow piping system fails. (2) If a restraint system has been manufactured by a commercial manufacturer, the employer must ensure that the restraint system is installed and anchored in accordance with the instructions and specifications of that manufacturer. (3) If a restraint system has been manufactured by the employer or another person who is not a commercial manufacturer, the employer must ensure that (a) engineering documentation, including technical specifications and instructions for use, has been prepared and signed by the person responsible for demonstrating that the restraint system has been designed and manufactured as described in subsection (1), (b) the restraint system is installed and anchored in accordance with that engineering documentation, and (c) a copy of that engineering documentation is readily available at the worksite. (4) In addition to meeting the requirements of subsection (2) or (3) (b), the employer must ensure that each restraint system is anchored at both the wellhead end and the supply vehicle end or pumping unit end, but a restraint system need not be anchored to the wellhead or to the supply vehicle or pumping unit. (5) The employer must ensure that temporary ground anchors that are part of a restraint system are pull tested before initial use and, if they continue to be used, that they are pull tested annually and whenever they may have been affected by seasonal changes. [en. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 4.] Flow piping systems — other requirements 23.69.3 
 &nbsp; (1) If the pressure of a flow piping system at the worksite may exceed 2&nbsp;000 kPa (290 psi) during well stimulation and similar operations, the employer must ensure that (a) those operations of the flow piping system are conducted by remote control, (b) unauthorized workers do not enter the area between the point of discharge and the wellhead, and (c) before the operations are started, warning signs are posted in the area of the operations stating "DANGER, NO UNAUTHORIZED WORKERS ALLOWED IN THIS AREA" or other similar language. (2) If the pressure of a flow piping system at the worksite may exceed 3&nbsp;000 kPa (435 psi), the employer must ensure that (a) the flow piping system connections are welded or flanged or are hammer unions, and (b) if the only connection on the wellhead is a threaded connection that is integral to the wellhead, the component parts of that threaded connection are compatible with each other. (3) The employer must ensure that each flow piping system at the worksite is completely depressurized before a leak in a connection or fitting in the flow piping system is corrected. (4) The employer must ensure that a person does not hammer on a pressurized flow piping system at the worksite. (5) If workers are using liquefied gas for well stimulation, the employer must ensure that the unit that supplies the liquefied gas and the unit that pumps the liquefied gas are positioned so that the valve controls of each of those units are on the sides of each of those units that are opposite from the piping that supplies the liquefied gas to the well. [en. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 4.] Piping, hoses and valves 23.70 
 &nbsp; (1) Only metal piping, or flexible hose designed for high pressure service, may be used between a service pump and the wellhead, and a check valve must be installed at the wellhead end of the piping. (2) A bleedoff valve must be installed between the check valve and the wellhead. [am. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 5.] High risk fluids 23.71 
 &nbsp; If it is necessary to replenish the pumping unit supply with high risk fluids, the filling line from an auxiliary tank must be piped directly to the suction end of the pump, and not into the pumper truck. Pressure testing requirements 23.72 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must ensure that, before a well service operation at the worksite commences, piping, pumps, valves, fittings and wellheads that are to be used in the operation have been (a) hydraulically pressure tested, or (b) if hydraulic pressure testing is not practicable, pressure tested with an inert gas, to a pressure that is at least 10% above the maximum operating pressure of the well service operation anticipated by the well owner but not above the manufacturer's maximum pressure rating of the piping, pumps, valves, fittings or wellheads. (2) The employer must ensure that, before a well testing or flowback operation at the worksite commences, the flow piping system from the wellhead to the first pressure control choke has been (a) hydraulically pressure tested, or (b) if hydraulic pressure testing is not practicable, pressure tested with an inert gas, to a pressure that is at least 10% above the maximum operating pressure of the well testing or flowback operation anticipated by the well owner but not above the manufacturer's maximum pressure rating of the piping, pumps, valves, fittings or wellheads. (3) The employer must ensure that documentation of the results of the testing required under subsections (1) and (2) is readily available at the worksite. (4) The employer must ensure that, if (a) nitrogen is being used in well stimulation, and (b) the flow piping system that supplies the nitrogen to the well is pressure tested with nitrogen, the nitrogen treating line is connected to the main line as close as practicable to the well. (5) The employer must ensure that, before each flow piping system at the worksite is pressurized with low flash point hydrocarbons, the air has been purged from the flow piping system. [en. B.C. Reg. 142/2017, s. 6.] Hot oiling 23.73 
 &nbsp; The vent line used in hot oiling operations must discharge a minimum of 10&nbsp;m (33&nbsp;ft) from sources of ignition. Bonding and grounding 23.74 
 &nbsp; During drill stem testing, swabbing, cementing, well servicing or stimulation, electrical continuity between items of equipment must be maintained and the entire system must be grounded. Production and Plant Operations Preventing ignition 23.75 
 &nbsp; Unless the system is designed and constructed to prevent flashback, sources of ignition in the flare pit and surrounding areas must be extinguished while a vessel is being completely drained to the flare pit and the pressure in the vessel is 35 kPa (5 psi) or less. Blanking of lines 23.76 
 &nbsp; Pipes connecting a vessel to a flare system must be blanked off and hoses disconnected (a) before work is performed within the vessel, and (b) during treater refilling operations. Retaining walls and diked areas 23.77 
 &nbsp; (1) Retaining walls and diked areas must be provided with safe access. (2) A worker must not enter a diked area unless (a) effective measures, including testing, have been taken to protect workers if hydrogen sulfide may be present, (b) testing for flammable gases and vapours, oxygen deficiency and harmful air contaminants is done if there are leaks or spills that may present a hazard to workers, and (c) testing for flammable gases and vapours is done before hot work takes place. (3) Testing must be done for hydrogen sulfide before entry to any diked area where sour fluid is stored. Truck loading and unloading 23.78 
 &nbsp; (1) A tank truck must be electrically bonded and grounded when loading and unloading hydrocarbons. (2) The ground conductor required by subsection (1) must remain effectively attached until all other connections have been removed. (3) Servicing or maintenance must not be carried out on a tank truck when loading or unloading hydrocarbons except for required greasing of the pump. (4) Chocks must be used to secure a tank truck while loading and unloading hydrocarbons. (5) Other vehicles must not be started or shut off within 8&nbsp;m (25&nbsp;ft.) of a tank truck containing flammable liquids while it is being connected or disconnected. (6) If a tank truck is being loaded through a dome hatch and it is necessary to observe the fluid level (a) a platform must be provided for the loader, (b) shutoff controls must be located at the platform, (c) illumination in accordance with the requirements of Part 4&nbsp; [General Conditions] must be provided during hours of darkness, and (d) the loading spout must extend to within l5 cm (6 in.) of the bottom of the tank. [am. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. A, s. 6.] Pressure relief 23.79 
 &nbsp; If a tank truck tank is pressurized as part of the unloading process (a) written safe work procedures must be provided for and followed by the operator, (b) the truck must be fitted with a pressure relief valve, regulator, pressure gauge and a mechanism for quickly shutting off supply to the tank, and (c) controls must be readily accessible to the operator. Venting of trucks 23.80 
 &nbsp; Tank trucks or loading facilities must have a system for protecting workers from hydrogen sulfide if it is present. Wrenches 23.81 
 &nbsp; (1) Valve wrenches must be constructed to an adequate engineered design. (2) Snipes or extensions must not be applied to valve or pipe wrenches, except by design. Cleaning and Repairing Tanks or Vessels Inerting 23.82 
 &nbsp; The requirement to control ignition sources during inerting operations in Part 9&nbsp; [Confined Spaces] does not apply to the workplaces covered by this Part. Safety harnesses 23.83 
 &nbsp; (1) If it is not practicable for a worker entering a confined space to use a lifeline due to internal piping or other obstructions, the worker must wear a full body harness. (2) If a lifeline is not used, 2 workers must be equipped with respirators and capable of effecting a rescue if required, and stationed immediately outside the entrance to the confined space. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2010, App. G, s. 16.] Welding precautions 23.84 
 &nbsp; (1) After a vessel or tank has been cleaned, and before further work is performed, (a) the vessel or tank must be ventilated and tested for toxic and flammable substances and oxygen deficiency, and (b) repeat tests must be made while work is in progress, as required by Part 9&nbsp; [Confined Spaces] . (2) If necessary to ensure the safety of workers, steam or an inert gas must be used to purge flammable substances from tankers, tanks, vessels or piping prior to any cutting or welding operations. (3) Services must be provided through the top accessway of a tank or vessel or, if this is not practicable, the services must be protected. (4) Equipment or fire extinguishers must not cause a hazard to workers in the tank or vessel. Openings 23.85 
 &nbsp; Primary entry ways and ventilation openings must be effectively secured in the open position before entry into a confined space is allowed. Electrical equipment 23.86 
 &nbsp; Electrical equipment used in confined spaces must be supplied with power through an approved ground fault circuit interrupter. Repealed 23.87 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 348/2003, s. 7.] Gas Sample Containers Standards 23.88 
 &nbsp; (1) Gas sample containers must meet the requirements of CSA Standard CAN/CSA-B339-88 Cylinders, Spheres, and Tubes for the Transportation of Dangerous Goods . (2) Gas sample containers must be used in accordance with CSA Standard CAN/CSA-B340-M88, Selection and Use of Cylinders, Spheres, Tubes, and Other Containers for the Transportation of Dangerous Goods, Class 2 . [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] Safe practices 23.89 
 &nbsp; (1) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 381/2004, s. 19.] (2) Valves must be screwed directly into gas sample containers. (3) Plugs must be used in the gas sample container valves. [am. B.C. Reg. 381/2004, s. 19.] Part 24 — Diving, Fishing and Other Marine Operations Definitions 24.1 
 &nbsp; In this Part: "altitude diving" means any dive performed over 300&nbsp;m (1&nbsp;000&nbsp;ft) above sea level; "atmospheric diving system (ADS)" means a diving system capable of withstanding external pressures greater than atmospheric pressure, and in which the internal pressure remains at one atmosphere, and includes a one person submarine and a one atmosphere compartment of a diving submersible; "atmospheric pressure" means pressure at the surface of the water, normally considered to be 101.3 kPa (14.7 psi); "bailout bottle" means an independent breathing gas supply carried by the diver, of sufficient quantity to return the diver to the surface, bell or emergency supply in the event of a malfunction of the primary breathing gas supply; "bottom time" means the total elapsed time, rounded to the next whole minute, from the time the diver leaves the surface to the time the diver begins final ascent; "chamber operator" means a person who has demonstrated capability in operating the controls of a recompression chamber and is knowledgeable and competent in diving tables and the application of treatment tables; "construction diving" means any diving operation that involves burning, welding, erection, alteration, dismantling, demolition, structural maintenance and inspection, excavating, salvage, boring, blasting, concreting and the installation of any machinery or equipment; "contaminated environment" means a workplace that contains or may contain chemical, biological or radiological material in sufficient concentration that, should any quantity of it be ingested, absorbed, adsorbed or inhaled, will likely endanger the health or safety of the worker; "contamination reduction zone" means the area used to dress and undress divers, transfer workers from the exclusion zone, and decontaminate personnel and equipment; "crewmember" for the purposes of sections 24.69 to 24.143, means any person who is working on a fishing vessel; "decompression illness" means a dysfunction caused by exposure to a reduction in pressure resulting in the production of bubbles in the body; "deep diving" means any diving operation to depths greater than 50&nbsp;m (165&nbsp;ft); "dive profile" means a logged schedule of the diver's activities during any diving operation, which includes the time the surface was left, depth, decompression, repetitive dives and other information concerning the diving operations; "dive site" means any location where a diving operation takes place including a boat, scow, float, raft or platform which is seaworthy, secure, and of sufficient size to safely accommodate all workers and equipment without overcrowding; "diver's harness" means a harness, fitted with a positive buckling device and an attachment point for a lifeline, that will prevent any strain on the diver's mask, helmet and umbilical, that is worn by the diver and is strong enough to lift the diver from the water in an emergency; "diver's tender" means a worker who is competent and knowledgeable in the diving apparatus being used, the diving operation in progress, emergency diving procedures and communications between diver and tender; "diving supervisor" means a person having complete and direct responsibility for the diving operation who is knowledgeable and competent with the diving equipment, the diving operations in progress, emergency diving procedures, diving physics and physiology and medical aspects of diving; "emergency breathing supply" means the bailout bottle carried by the diver and may include the high pressure breathing medium bottle carried on the diving stage; "exclusion zone" means the workplace at the surface from which divers are tended during a contaminated diving operation; "fish" means any species of animal living in water, including its eggs or roe; "fishing vessel" means any commercial vessel used in catching fish or collecting or transporting fish for landing; "lifejacket" means a device that, (a) when worn correctly, provides a specified buoyancy that will turn the wearer face-up on entering the water, and will keep the wearer in this position, and (b) is of a type of lifejacket that has the approval, and bears a mark or label indicating that approval, set out in section 7 (1) and (2) of the Small Vessel Regulations (Canada); "lifeline" means a rope of 16 mm (5/8 in) in diameter, of polypropylene or other synthetic fibre of at least equal strength, which is secured to the diver and to a permanent fixture at the surface; "live boating" means the support of a surface supplied diver from a vessel under way; "lock-out submersible (or LOS)" means a self-propelled submersible fitted with a submersible compression chamber from which a diving operation can be carried out and that has a separate one atmosphere chamber from which the submersible is operated; "master" for the purposes of sections 24.69 to 24.143, means the person in overall command of a fishing vessel; "medical recompression" means treatment of a diver in a compressed air environment, in a recompression chamber, in accordance with established practice or medical direction, to alleviate symptoms resulting from a previous decompression; "mixed gas" means a mixture of breathable gases other than atmospheric air; "no decompression limit" means that in accordance with the diving table in use for the depth and duration of the dive, no decompression stop is required; "owner" for the purposes of sections 24.69 to 24.143, means the person who holds legal title to a fishing vessel and also includes a charterer of a fishing vessel; "personal flotation device (PFD)" means a device that, (a) when worn correctly, provides a specified buoyancy to support a conscious person in an upright or backward leaning position, but is not designed to turn a person from a face-down to a face-up position in the water, and (b) is of a type of personal flotation device that has the approval, and bears a mark or label indicating that approval, set out in section 7 of the Small Vessel Regulations (Canada); "recompression chamber" means a system consisting of one or more pressure vessels for human occupancy, with associated utilities, controls and instrumentation, whose purpose is to support diving operations, hyperbaric treatment, dive simulation and/or scientific study and equipment testing; "reserve breathing supply" means a secondary supply, other than the bailout bottle, of a breathing medium of the appropriate mixture and of sufficient quantity to enable the diver to return safely to the surface with all appropriate decompression stops; "scuba" means self-contained underwater breathing apparatus; "stage" means a suspended work platform such as a cage, basket or platform in which 2 divers may be lowered to or raised from an underwater worksite; "submersible compression chamber (or SCC)" means a chamber that is intended to be submerged and that is designed to transport a person at atmospheric pressure or divers at pressures greater than atmospheric pressure from the surface to an underwater work site and back and includes the compression chamber of a diving submersible; "support zone" means the workplace used in support of the diving operations and where the cleaning and/or disposal of diving equipment may take place; "surface supply diving" means supplying air or a mixture of gases to a diver through a hose from the surface; "umbilical bundle" means a combination of hoses and cable, including a lifeline or strength member attached in a manner to prevent stress on the diver's hose, which is capable of supplying a breathing mixture or other services as required such as power, heat, cooling, communications and depth (kluge) indicating hose; "working alone" means working in circumstances where assistance would not be readily available to a crewmember if the crewmember fell overboard. [am. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, ss. 2 and 3.] Wharves, Docks and Mooring Floats Ladders 24.2 
 &nbsp; Fixed ladders must be provided at every dock for access to and egress from the water, and must (a) be spaced at intervals not exceeding 30&nbsp;m (100&nbsp;ft), (b) extend from the top of the dock to at least 1&nbsp;m (3.3&nbsp;ft) below the lowest water level, (c) be maintained free of barnacles and marine growth, and (d) have their location identified by high visibility paint on the curb or bullrail. Lifesaving equipment 24.3 
 &nbsp; (1) Appropriate lifesaving equipment must (a) be provided and maintained for the rescue of any worker in danger of drowning, and (b) be positioned at intervals not exceeding 50&nbsp;m (165&nbsp;ft) in conspicuous locations as near as practicable to the danger area. (2) Throwing lines fitted to lifebuoys or similar equipment must be of suitable size and length and made of buoyant material. (3) For the purposes of this section, lifesaving equipment includes lifebuoys, throwing bags, grapples, boat hooks or other equipment appropriate to the circumstances. Curbs, bullrails, guardrails and barriers 24.4 
 &nbsp; (1) A curb or bullrail must be installed along the open sides of each float, dock, wharf, pier and similar other area where mobile equipment might be used. (2) Each curb and bullrail must be of substantial construction and be at least 25 cm (10 in) high. (3) Where practicable, guardrails meeting the requirements of Part 4 (General Conditions) must be installed at (a) dangerous breaks in the continuity of a wharf, dock or pier, and (b) dangerous corners, edges and other parts of a wharf, dock or pier. (4) Moveable warning barriers may be used where the use of standard guardrails is impracticable. (5) Effective warning barriers must be installed across the entrances of barge and ship loading ramps when the ramps are not in use. [am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.] Markings 24.5 
 &nbsp; (1) Where circumstances require, curbs, bullrails, guardrails and barriers must be painted solid yellow, yellow and black stripes or checkers, or yellow against a suitable contrasting background. (2) Retroreflective paint or patches must be applied to curbs, bullrails, guardrails and barriers where mobile equipment is operated at night. [am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.] Rescue boat 24.6 
 &nbsp; A suitable boat must be provided and kept ready for immediate use when workers are employed in situations where a boat is necessary for rescue or evacuation. [am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.] Diving Operations General Requirements Application 24.7 
 &nbsp; Sections 24.7 to 24.68 apply to all persons involved in any occupational diving operation. [am. B.C. Reg. 185/99, s. 70.] Repealed 24.8 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. G, s. 3.] Notice of project 24.9 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must submit a notice of project for diving activity, or notify the Board by telephone, at least 24&nbsp;hours before commencing a diving operation which involves (a) construction diving, (b) engineering inspection diving, (c) diving in a contaminated environment, (d) diving under ice, under or between nets, or into other areas of potential entrapment, (e) exceeding the no-decompression limit, or (f) the use of mixed gas other than nitrox as a breathing medium. (2) The notice of project must indicate the date, the location, the diving equipment to be used and the scope of the diving operation. (3) Before diving commences, a copy of the notice of project must be posted at the worksite, or if notification is provided by telephone, a written summary of that notification that contains the information required by subsection (2) must be posted at the worksite. (4) If in an emergency it is not practicable to notify the Board prior to the start of a diving operation, the Board must be notified as soon as possible, but no later than 24&nbsp;hours after the diving operation has begun. [am. B.C. Reg. 253/2001, s. 18.] Medical certification 24.10 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must ensure that each diver has current medical certification, from a physician knowledgeable and competent in diving medicine, before commencing diving operations. (2) A diver's medical certification must be (a) established prior to entry into any commercial diving activity, (b) renewed every 2 years up to age 39 and annually from age 40 onwards, (c) renewed more frequently than required by paragraph (b) if clinically indicated, and (d) re-evaluated by a physician knowledgeable and competent in diving medicine if the diver is subjected to an event or has a physical condition which may affect the diver's medical status. (3) A copy of each diver's medical certification must be kept at the dive site. Diver's fitness 24.11 
 &nbsp; (1) A diver must not dive if, in the opinion of the diving supervisor, the diver is incapable of functioning safely underwater. (2) A diver must be medically re-examined, as required by the diving supervisor, to ensure that the diver is fit to dive. (3) Divers, standby divers and divers' tenders must not participate in any diving operation if they are physically or emotionally fatigued or if they have consumed drugs or alcohol which would impair their ability to work safely. Training 24.12 
 &nbsp; (1) A diver must not dive unless the diver has been thoroughly trained in the theory and use of the diving apparatus that the diver will be using. (2) The training required by subsection (1) must be provided by a person or agency acceptable to the Board. (3) All divers, diving supervisors and divers' tenders must be trained in CPR, oxygen (O 2 ) therapy, and diving accident management. Evidence of competency 24.13 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer and diving supervisor must ensure that all divers (a) meet the minimum requirements of CSA Standard Z275.4-97 Competency Standard for Diving Operations , and (b) are competent to use the diving equipment that will be used in the diving operation. (2) A certified copy of competency documents for each diver must be available for inspection on site by an officer. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 4.] Diving logs 24.14 
 &nbsp; (1) Each diver must have, and keep for 2 years after the last entry, a personal log containing a record of all (a) dives carried out, and (b) medical recompressions and other exposures to a compressed air/mixed gas environment. (2) The records in a diver's personal log must be in chronological order and each dive must be verified and initialled by the diving supervisor. (3) The records for each dive must include (a) the type of diving apparatus used and the gas medium breathed, (b) the times the diver left the surface, reached and left the bottom, and returned to the surface, (c) the maximum depth attained, (d) the surface interval, if a repetitive dive, (e) the decompression tables that were used, (f) the date the dive was undertaken, and (g) remarks (such as name of employer, unusual incidents). (4) The diving supervisor must keep a separate log of the diving operation containing the information required by subsection (3). (5) The diving supervisor's log must be filed with the employer upon completion of the operation. (6) All current logs must be available at the dive site for inspection by an officer. Dive site equipment 24.15 
 &nbsp; When diving is in progress, the dive site must be provided with (a) a current list of facilities with hyperbaric chambers capable of providing emergency treatment, (b) the locations and phone numbers of the nearest hospital and available emergency assistance, (c) if the no-decompression limit is to be exceeded, a 16 mm (5/8 in) synthetic line, marked at appropriate intervals for decompression stops, weighted and of sufficient length to reach the maximum depth for the dive, (d) a first aid kit and an oxygen (O 2 ) therapy unit with sufficient capacity to reach emergency medical services, (e) one complete set of acceptable dive tables and one copy of this Regulation, (f) an appropriate means for entering and leaving the water, including a means for rescuing an incapacitated diver, (g) equipment to provide voice communication with emergency services personnel, and (h) other equipment as may be required by the Board. [am. B.C. Reg. 348/2003, s. 8.] Lifelines 24.16 
 &nbsp; Divers tended on a lifeline must wear a suitable diver's harness and lifelines must be (a) securely fastened to the diver's harness, but not attached to the diver's weight belt, (b) free of knots and splices, (c) secured to a permanent fixture at the surface, and (d) tended at all times by a diver's tender. Safe diving procedures 24.17 
 &nbsp; (1) Every employer engaged in diving operations must prepare and publish a set of safe diving procedures which include (a) safe procedures and health requirements for each type of diving in which workers may be involved, (b) all the procedures to meet the applicable requirements of this Regulation, and (c) emergency, evacuation, and rescue procedures. (2) The safe diving procedures must be kept at the dive site, readily available to all workers, and available for inspection by an officer. Diving supervisor's worksite duties 24.18 
 &nbsp; (1) Each diving operation must be directed by a diving supervisor whose duties include (a) evaluating the hazards, (b) planning the dive, (c) briefing the crew, (d) ensuring that all needed equipment is available and in good working condition, and (e) controlling the entire diving operation. (f) Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. G, s. 4 (c).] (2) The diving supervisor must prepare a detailed plan of the diving operations which must be given to the worksite employer before diving commences. (3) The diving supervisor must (a) remain in the dive area during diving operations, (b) delegate the supervisory responsibilities to another diving supervisor, if required to enter the water, and (c) suspend diving operations if conditions become unsafe. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. G, s. 4.] Crew briefing 24.19 
 &nbsp; Immediately before each dive, the diving supervisor must brief all persons involved in the diving operations about (a) the hazards which may be encountered during the dive, (b) the intended duration of the dive and the maximum depth to be reached, (c) decompression procedures to be followed, (d) the location of other divers, (e) the work to be done, (f) specific recall signals, and (g) emergency procedures to be followed. Diver's responsibilities 24.20 
 &nbsp; (1) Each diver must satisfy the diving supervisor that the diver fully understands the signals and procedures in use. (2) Except in the case of accidental or unavoidable circumstances, a diver must not remain or be permitted to remain at any depth longer than the maximum time planned for that dive. (3) In any diving operation the diver must inform the tender or diving partner and must proceed to the surface under any of the following conditions: (a) if any malfunction in diving gear occurs; (b) on receipt of any signal which cannot be understood; (c) at the onset of any symptoms of physical or psychological distress; (d) on receipt of a recall signal; (e) when the main air supply is near depletion; (f) if the emergency apparatus/air supply is being used; (g) in the event of excessive leakage to a dry type of diving suit which may affect the diver's buoyancy. [am. B.C. Reg. 116/2022, App. B, s. 14.] Diving tables 24.21 
 &nbsp; (1) Diving operations, repetitive dives, and treatment of divers, must be carried out in strict accordance with tables and procedures published or approved by the Defence and Civil Institute of Environmental Medicine (Canada). (2) Sport diving tables must not be used. (3) Diving computers must not be used in place of primary diving tables. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5; 14/2019, App. F, s. 3.] Decompression procedures 24.22 
 &nbsp; (1) During diving operations which require decompression, a reserve breathing supply with sufficient reserve to bring divers to the surface with appropriate decompression stops must be available and ready for immediate use. (2) Whenever planned dives will exceed the no-decompression limit (a) the divers must be equipped with a bailout bottle containing a minimum 1.4 m 3 (50&nbsp;ft 3 ) of breathing medium, (b) an approved double lock hyperbaric chamber in operable condition with overriding outside controls and appropriate air facilities must be located so that travel time by available transport will not exceed 30 minutes, (c) if the planned decompression time will exceed 15 minutes the hyperbaric chamber must be on the dive site, and (d) a chamber operator must be available on the surface at the dive site or at the hyperbaric chamber. (3) A dive must not exceed the no-decompression limit if the hyperbaric chamber is occupied. Diver care and transportation 24.23 
 &nbsp; (1) The diving supervisor must ensure that on completion of decompression, the diver remains under observation in the general area of the hyperbaric chamber for a period of time to ensure the well-being of the diver. (2) If a diver shows signs of pressure related illness or requires therapeutic recompression, the diving supervisor must ensure that treatment is initiated immediately and a physician knowledgeable in hyperbaric medicine is notified. (3) If it is necessary to transport a diver suffering a diving ailment by air, provision must be made to furnish the patient with oxygen and the flight altitude must be prescribed by the attending physician or the diving supervisor. Medical alert tag 24.24 
 &nbsp; A diver must wear a medical alert tag or bracelet stating the diver's status and indicating the possibility of decompression sickness or other diving illness, for at least 24 hours after completion of diving. Hyperbaric chambers 24.25 
 &nbsp; Hyperbaric chambers must conform to standards acceptable to the Board and must be provided with (a) a means of extinguishing a fire, (b) an oxygen monitoring device, (c) an oxygen delivery system with a built-in breathing system (BIBS), and (d) an adequate supply of air, including an emergency reserve supply to complete any decompression and treatment procedures. Breathing mediums 24.26 
 &nbsp; (1) If air is used as the respirable medium in diving operations it must meet the requirements of CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z275.2-92, Occupational Safety Code for Diving Operations , with the exception of the water vapour standard. (2) The air supplied by compressors for breathing air in diving operations must be tested at least annually to ensure that it meets the requirements of subsection (1). (3) If mixed gases in other than the normal proportions of respirable air are used for breathing by divers, the diving supervisor must ensure that (a) the diving procedures and schedules of work, and decompression are in accordance with the recommendations of a competent authority, and (b) prior written authorization has been received from the Board to use mixed gases other than nitrox and that the authorization is kept on the dive site, available for inspection by an officer. (4) The following requirements apply to operations using nitrox mixes: (a) procedures and mixes must be acceptable to the Board; (b) all workers involved with nitrox diving must be trained in the procedures to a standard acceptable to the Board; (c) proof of training and a copy of the operating procedures must be readily available at each dive site. Breathing apparatus 24.27 
 &nbsp; (1) All breathing apparatus and associated delivery systems must be correctly installed and tested for function before each use. (2) The breathing apparatus, accessories and applicable service records must be available for inspection by an officer, and service records must be available to workers on the dive site. [en. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 25.] Compressor intake 24.28 
 &nbsp; The compressor intake must&nbsp; be located so that the breathing medium will not be contaminated by gasoline vapours, engine exhausts, or other objectionable impurities. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. B, s. 56.] Gauges and meters 24.29 
 &nbsp; (1) Gauges and meter equipment must be tested every 6&nbsp;months or whenever a malfunction is detected, and errors found must be corrected without delay. (2) If the equipment is removed from service, the specific problem with the equipment must be identified. Warning devices 24.30 
 &nbsp; When any diving activity is taking place, warning devices must be displayed as follows: (a) marker buoys must be used to display warning devices (flags, lights, lamps, or flares) to define the limits of the diving area, and boats other than those connected with the diving activity must be kept clear of the diving area; (b) in navigable waters the recognized diver's flag must be flown or prominently displayed; (c) flags and signals used for work site identification must only be displayed during active diving operations. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. E, s. 26.] Rescue boat 24.31 
 &nbsp; If divers are operating from floating equipment, a suitable power boat, ready for immediate use, must be available on the dive site, for rescue or escape. Hoists 24.32 
 &nbsp; (1) If a hoisting device is required to lower or raise the diver it must not be used for any other purpose until the diver has been recovered. (2) All directions to the hoist operator must be given by either the diver, the diver's tender or the diving supervisor. Standby diver 24.33 
 &nbsp; (1) A standby diver must be (a) on the dive site and able to render assistance at all times when diving operations are in progress, (b) trained and equipped to operate at the depths and circumstances of the dive, and (c) able to enter the water in one minute. (2) A standby diver on the surface may also perform other duties provided such duties do not compromise the standby diver's ability to promptly render emergency assistance to the divers. (3) When the diving supervisor can assure that the depth of the dive will not exceed 18&nbsp;m (60&nbsp;ft) and no hazards are present, 2 divers in the water may act as standby for each other provided that (a) each diver is free swimming, (b) the no-decompression limit is not exceeded, (c) each diver has been trained to effectively rescue a diver in trouble and has demonstrated this ability to the diving supervisor's satisfaction, (d) the divers are in close proximity to each other at all times so as to be able to effect rescue, and (e) the divers are in constant audio communication with each other and the surface, or when using scuba they maintain constant physical or visual contact with each other. (4) In subsection (3), "no hazards are present" includes, but is not limited to, a dive made in good weather conditions, where there are no appreciable currents, where there is good underwater visibility, no possibility of entanglement with underwater objects, and good access and egress to and from the dive site. Incident investigation reports 24.34 
 &nbsp; (1) An incident investigation report meeting the requirements of the OHS provisions of the Workers Compensation Act must be submitted to the Board as soon as possible if any of the following occurs during a diving operation: (a) injury or death; (b) convulsions or serious impairment of consciousness during or after a dive; (c) decompression illness; (d) lung overpressurization; (e) any serious mishap, even though the diver escapes actual injury, or a series of events which render equipment or procedures suspect, before, during, or after the diving operation. (2) The facts must be recorded as soon after the incident as possible, and the report must include the dive profile and all relevant details. (3) In the event of any diving incident, (a) the Board reserves the right to take temporary possession of and investigate all equipment related to the diving operation, and (b) the equipment must not be tampered with or altered in any manner until authorization has been received from the Board. [am. B.C. Regs. 185/99, s. 71; 195/2015, s. 2; 279/2019, App. D, s. 4.] Scuba Diving Communication 24.35 &nbsp; Each diver using scuba must (a) employ the buddy system whereby 2 divers remain, at all times, in constant visual or physical contact and both surface immediately if they lose that contact, (b) be tended on a lifeline by a diver's tender, (c) be in constant audio communication with the surface, or (d) be tethered, with a minimum 10 mm (3/8 in) diameter synthetic line or equivalent, to an identifiable float located on the surface that is constantly visually monitored from a location that allows immediate assistance to be rendered in case of emergency. Minimum crew 24.36 
 &nbsp; (1) A minimum crew of 3 workers must be present on each dive site if the dive will (a) not exceed 18&nbsp;m (60&nbsp;ft) in depth, and (b) remain within the no-decompression limit, and (c) be made where it is known there is no hazard of entrapment. (2) When using the buddy system, a minimum of 2 divers must be present, and a third person must stay on the surface as a supervisor/tender. (3) When using lifelines, floats or audio communication with the surface, (a) a standby diver and a supervisor/tender must be on the surface, and (b) a tender must tend only one scuba diver unless the divers are on floats, or have lifelines and effective 3-way voice communication, in which case the tender may tend 2 divers. (4) When a dive does not meet the requirements of subsection (1), then (a) a standby diver and a supervisor/tender must stay on the surface, and (b) if not using the buddy system, a single diver must be tethered and carry a bailout bottle. Restrictions on scuba 24.37 
 &nbsp; (1) Scuba must not be used in underwater construction, burning, welding, salvage operations, demolition, jetting and suction dredging or other diving operations in which the diver (a) may be entrapped, (b) does not have free access to the surface, (c) may be exposed to a contaminated environment, or (d) could be adversely affected by hazardous underwater or surface work activities or conditions which could be alleviated if the diver were using surface supplied air. (2) Divers using scuba must use open circuit apparatus providing a breathing medium by an automatic demand flow system. (3) Recirculating apparatus may only be used with prior permission of the Board. (4) Divers using scuba must not dive to depths greater than 40&nbsp;m (130&nbsp;ft) unless prior authorization has been received from the Board. Equipment 24.38 
 &nbsp; (1) Each diver using scuba must use all of the following equipment appropriate to the diving conditions and as specified by the diving supervisor: (a) a scuba unit complete with a quick release harness and a submersible pressure gauge; (b) a face mask and swimming fins; (c) a suitable knife and a depth gauge; (d) an exposure suit and an inflatable buoyancy device; (e) a weight belt with quick release buckle; (f) an underwater watch with elapsed time indicator; (g) an underwater light when night diving; (h) other equipment as may be required by the Board. (2) If a risk of entrapment is present, one complete spare set of underwater breathing apparatus with fully charged cylinders must be assembled at the dive site. (3) When diving in open water, each free swimming diver must carry an audible or visual locating device such as a whistle, flare, or strobe light. Testing cylinders 24.39 
 &nbsp; (1) Each scuba cylinder must be hydrostatically tested at least once every 5 years and visually inspected internally at least once a year. (2) The hydrostatic test date must be affixed to the cylinder and entered into the maintenance log. (3) The visual inspection date must be entered in the maintenance log. Surface Supply Diving Minimum crew 24.40 
 &nbsp; (1) For each diving operation where planned dives do not exceed 40&nbsp;m (130&nbsp;ft) or the no-decompression limits, and where there are no hazards present, a minimum dive crew of 3 workers must be present, one of whom must be a diver's supervisor/tender, one a diver and one a standby diver on the surface unless the standby is permitted by section 24.33 (3) to serve as a standby in the water. (2) If the planned dive exceeds 40&nbsp;m (130&nbsp;ft), or the no-decompression limits, or there are hazards present, the dive crew must consist of a minimum of 4 workers: a diving supervisor, a diver's tender and 2 divers, one of whom must be a standby diver on the surface. Diver's tender 24.41 
 &nbsp; (1) Each surface supplied diver must be tended, hands on, by a separate diver's tender. (2) If audio communications are used, one tender may monitor 2 divers. Diver's equipment 24.42 
 &nbsp; (1) Diver's boots must be patterned, constructed, and fastened to prevent their loss underwater. (2) Every diver must wear a separate weight belt outside the diving dress, which (a) if released must result in the diver achieving positive buoyancy, and (b) must be inspected daily before commencing a diving operation. (3) Non-return valves must be (a) fitted to all surface supplied diving helmets, masks, and hookah diving systems, and (b) checked before commencing a diving operation. (4) Each diver must wear a bailout system and carry a suitable knife. (5) When divers use a stage to carry out decompression diving, the stage must have an independent source of emergency breathing gases sufficient to complete any needed decompression of the diver. Compressors 24.43 
 &nbsp; Compressors used to supply air to divers must be (a) capable of maintaining a supply of air equal to at least double the volume of air required, (b) capable of developing pressure at least 25% greater than the anticipated pressure requirement, and (c) automatic in operation. [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 25.] Volume tanks 24.44 
 &nbsp; Air from a low pressure compressor must be discharged into a volume tank of at least 100 litres (22 imp gal) capacity, fitted with (a) a no-return valve on the inlet side, (b) a pressure gauge, (c) an over pressure relief valve, and (d) a drain cock capable of draining any fluids. Breathing air filters 24.45 
 &nbsp; Air supplied from a volume tank must be passed through a filtration system consisting of at least a water trap, a particulate filter and a chemical vapour absorbent. Manifolds and fittings 24.46 
 &nbsp; (1) The manifold system must be provided with (a) a primary and a reserve air supply capable of being isolated from each other, and (b) piping of a diameter which ensures an adequate flow of gas to the diver(s). (2) The reserve supply must provide a sufficient quantity of breathing mixture to enable the diver to return to the surface and undergo all "in water" decompression. (3) If there is no voice communication with the diver, each surface supplied air system must be equipped with an audible low pressure alarm situated so that it can be heard by the diving supervisor and the diver's tender. Breathing gas lines 24.47 
 &nbsp; (1) All stationary breathing air or mixed gas lines must be guarded against damage or interference. (2) Each diver's air or mixed gas line must be fitted with a valve that is (a) readily accessible, (b) guarded against interference, (c) clearly marked to identify the diver it services, and (d) under the care and control of the diver's supervisor or diver's tender. (3) Each diver's air or mixed gas line must be fitted with a pressure gauge to indicate the pressure being delivered to the diver, and the gauge must be located downstream of the diver's supply valve so that the dial and figures are clearly visible to the diver's tender. (4) All hoses, pipes, couplings and other fittings used in any air or mixed gas line for divers must be designed and suitable for their intended use. (5) Hoses must be protected from kinking and be capable of sustaining the required flow rates and pressures for the system used. (6) Every umbilical must incorporate a lifeline to prevent stress on the hose or diver's helmet, and the umbilical and lifeline must be attached to a suitable diver's harness. (7) The standby diver's umbilical and lifeline must be of sufficient length to reach the operating diver. Deep Diving General requirements 24.48 
 &nbsp; Divers who take part in deep diving operations must (a) be tethered to the work base by a breathing gas umbilical, (b) have effective two-way voice communications with the surface, and (c) be supplied with a mixed gas breathing medium. Hyperbaric chamber 24.49 
 &nbsp; An approved double lock hyperbaric chamber must be on the dive site and in operable condition. Transportation to the underwater worksite 24.50 
 &nbsp; (1) If the depth of the dive is less than 73&nbsp;m (240&nbsp;ft) and the total "in water" ascent time is less than 1&nbsp;hour, the diver must be transported to and from the underwater worksite by a stage, bell, or submersible compression chamber (SCC). (2) If the depth or time exceeds the conditions in subsection (1) an SCC must be used to transport the diver. (3) The standby diver must be stationed at the surface, or if an SCC is used the standby diver must be in the SCC. (4) The diving supervisor must have a means of (a) monitoring the depth of the diver and the SCC, (b) controlling the pressures of the breathing mixtures supplied to each diver and the standby diver, and (c) continuously analyzing the breathing mixture. Rest periods 24.51 
 &nbsp; (1) If non-saturation diving techniques are used in a deep diving operation, the diving supervisor must ensure there is a rest period of at least 24 continuous hours following the completion of decompression. (2) If saturation diving techniques are used, the diving supervisor must ensure that (a) if the dive is to a depth of 150&nbsp;m (500&nbsp;ft) or less, a diver does not exceed 4 hours in the water and 4&nbsp;hours as an attendant in the SCC, (b) if the dive is deeper than 150&nbsp;m (500&nbsp;ft), a diver does not exceed 3&nbsp;hours in the water and 3&nbsp;hours as an attendant in the SCC, and (c) in any 24 hour period, there is a rest period of at least 12 continuous hours after the applicable time limits in paragraphs (a) and (b) have been reached. (3) A diver must not commence another dive within 7 days of completion of decompression following a saturation dive unless at the discretion of a physician knowledgeable and competent in diving medicine. Submersible Compression Chambers (SCC) and Lock-Out Submersibles (LOS) Standards 24.52 
 &nbsp; Submersible Compression Chambers and Lock-Out Submersibles must meet the requirements of CSA Standard Z275.1-93, Hyperbaric Facilities . [am. B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. A, s. 5.] General equipment requirements 24.53 
 &nbsp; Each SCC and LOS must be equipped to permit the transfer of persons under pressure into and from a surface compression chamber, and must have (a) doors and hatches that act as pressure seals, and that may be opened from either side, (b) valves, gauges, and other fittings necessary to control the internal pressure and to clearly indicate the internal and external pressures, (c) spring loaded pressurization and main exhaust valves which will close when not held in the open position, (d) a reserve breathing mixture for persons occupying or working from the SCC or LOS, which must be protected against inadvertent operation and be capable of being brought on line from within the SCC or LOS without outside assistance, (e) a two-way voice communication system capable of continuously recording and saving the previous 4 hours of conversation, with emergency backup capabilities, through which a person in the SCC or LOS can communicate with the diving supervisor, (f) heating and lighting equipment including emergency backup illumination, (g) first aid equipment, without towelettes, (h) a hoisting device to bring an unconscious or injured diver into the chamber, (i) a standby diver's umbilical bundle which must be 3&nbsp;m (10&nbsp;ft) longer than the diver's umbilical bundle, (j) a strobe light that is activated while the chamber is in the water, (k) an emergency locating device with a surface receiver operating at 37.5 kHz, (l) instruments to monitor temperature, oxygen and carbon dioxide levels within the chamber, and for an SCC the instrument readings must be readable on the surface, (m) primary and emergency carbon dioxide scrubbers, (n) hull integrity valves mounted on all gas and other penetrations into the submersible compression chamber, (o) a secondary source of power for the diving systems and equipment that can be rapidly brought on line in the event the primary energy source fails, and (p) in a diving operation in which an SCC is used, a sufficient quantity of breathing mixture to meet the needs of the occupants of the chamber for at least 24&nbsp;hours. [am. B.C. Reg. 348/2003, s. 9.] Design 24.54 
 &nbsp; Each SCC and LOS must be of a design that (a) allows divers to enter and exit without difficulty, (b) allows at least 2 divers, equipped and dressed for the diving operation, to be seated within, and (c) in case of emergency, allows a diver within to disconnect or shear the primary lifting cable and the umbilical bundle. Lifting gear 24.55 
 &nbsp; (1) Each SCC and LOS must be used in association with lifting gear that (a) enables the SCC or LOS to be lowered to the depth at which the diving operation is to be carried out, without excessive lateral, vertical, or rotational movement taking place, (b) is provided with, in addition to the primary lifting cable, a tag rope so designed that in the event of the primary cable breaking during an air water interface transfer, the tag rope will permit the SCC or LOS to descend only to a calm area immediately below the turbulent wave zone, and (c) is provided with a secondary means of being returned to the surface in the event of failure of the main lifting gear. (2) If use of the secondary means in subsection (1) (c) involves shedding weights, the controls for shedding weights must be operable from within the SCC or LOS and must incorporate a means to prevent the weights from being shed inadvertently. Secondary lifting equipment 24.56 
 &nbsp; (1) An LOS must be provided with (a) a secondary lifting eye or similar device of at least the same strength as the primary lifting eye, and (b) a secondary lifting cable that is readily available and of at least the same strength as the primary lifting cable, and is compatible with the secondary lifting eye or similar device. (2) An SCC must be provided with (a) a secondary lifting eye or similar device of at least the same strength as the primary lifting eye, and (b) a secondary lifting cable that is attached and capable of returning the SCC to the surface. (3) An alternative means must be provided to return the SCC or LOS to the deck. Diving system procedures 24.57 
 &nbsp; (1) The diving supervisor must ensure that a lock-out diving operation is not conducted from a submersible unless (a) the submersible is negatively buoyant on the bottom or positively secured to the work site, (b) the diving supervisor is on board the submersible and present in the one atmosphere chamber during the lock-out operation, and (c) a standby diver is monitoring the lock-out operation from the submersible's compression chamber and is dressed and equipped to immediately carry out rescue operations in the event of an emergency. (2) The diving supervisor must ensure that lock-out submersible and atmospheric diving system operations are not conducted unless (a) a backup unit with sufficient depth capabilities to effect a rescue is available for use in the event of an emergency, (b) the on-board life-support system of the LOS is capable of sustaining life for a period of time that would enable the backup unit to reach the site of the diving operation and effect rescue, and (c) a breathing mixture is provided that will meet the needs of the occupants for at least 48&nbsp;hours. Atmospheric Diving Systems (ADS) Registration 24.58 
 &nbsp; The employer must ensure that an atmospheric diving system meets the requirements for registration with Lloyd's Registry of Shipping, the American Bureau of Shipping, or Det Norske Veritas. General equipment requirements 24.59 
 &nbsp; An ADS must have (a) valves, gauges, and other fittings necessary to control the internal pressure, and to clearly indicate the internal and external pressures, (b) a reserve breathing mixture for persons occupying the ADS, a mixture which is protected against inadvertent operation and is capable of being brought on line from inside, without outside assistance, (c) a two-way voice communication system, capable of continuously recording and saving the previous 4 hours of conversation, and with emergency backup capabilities, by which a person inside the atmospheric diving system can communicate with the diving supervisor, (d) lighting equipment including emergency backup illumination, (e) first aid equipment, (f) heating equipment and thermal protection for all occupants, (g) a strobe light that can be activated while the ADS is in the water, (h) an emergency locating device with a surface receiver operating at 37.5 kHz, (i) instruments to enable occupants to monitor the temperature, oxygen and carbon dioxide within the atmospheric diving system, (j) a primary and an emergency means of scrubbing carbon dioxide, (k) a device which allows the occupant to disconnect or shear the primary lifting cable and the umbilical bundle in an emergency, and (l) in addition to the primary lifting cable, a tag rope or secondary lifting method so designed that in the event of the primary cable breaking during an air water interface transfer, the tag rope or secondary method will permit the ADS to descend only to a calm area immediately below the turbulent wave zone. Secondary means of surfacing 24.60 
 &nbsp; (1) The employer must ensure that atmospheric diving operations are not conducted unless the atmospheric diving system is provided with a secondary means of returning to the surface in the event the main lifting gear fails. (2) If use of the secondary means involves shedding weights, the controls for shedding weights must be operable from within and must incorporate a means to prevent the weights from being shed inadvertently. Secondary lifting equipment 24.61 
 &nbsp; An ADS must be provided with (a) a secondary lifting eye or similar device that is of at least the same strength as the primary lifting eye, and (b) a secondary lifting cable that is readily available and of at least the same strength as the primary lifting cable, and is compatible with the secondary lifting eye or device. Altitude Diving General procedures 24.62 
 &nbsp; (1) The diving supervisor must ensure that altitude diving operations are conducted in accordance with acceptable altitude diving tables. (2) Altitude diving procedures must address (a) acclimatization at the dive site to reduce the diver's nitrogen load caused by the reduced atmospheric pressure at the increased altitude, (b) the equivalent ocean depth in order to select the appropriate tables at the altitude, (c) accurate methods of calculating the diver's actual depth of dive, (d) calculation of the reduction in ascent rate due to the increase in altitude, and (e) post dive travel considerations. Specific Diving Hazards Hazardous mechanisms 24.63 
 &nbsp; Before a diver enters the water all hazardous mechanisms must be (a) secured against inadvertent movement, and (b) locked out as required by Part 10 (De-energization and Lockout). Intakes, pipes and tunnels 24.64 
 &nbsp; (1) If a diver is required to approach or enter the intake of any pipe, tunnel, duct, or similar installation the diver must be provided with the means to distinguish the specific intake from any others in the vicinity. (2) A diver must not enter the water until flow through the intake is stopped and the intake mechanism is locked out, and the flow must not be restarted until the diver has left the water. (3) If divers are required to approach a hazardous mechanism, a pressure differential structure, or the intake of any pipe, tunnel, duct or similar installation, the divers must use only surface-tethered diving equipment with effective two-way voice communication with the surface; if required to enter, they must use only surface supplied diving equipment with effective two-way voice communication with the surface. Exceptional hazards 24.65 
 &nbsp; Additional dive team members with independent equipment and capable of effecting rescue must be on the dive site whenever diving operations incur exceptional risk of entrapment of a diver or loss of the diver's life support system. Contaminated environments 24.66 
 &nbsp; (1) Before diving commences in a contaminated environment, an operational plan must be devised that is available at the dive site and provides for (a) identification of the contaminants, (b) special clothing or equipment to be used, (c) potential adverse health effects to persons and special medical precautionary measures, (d) identification of the exclusion zone, contamination reduction zone and the support zone, and protective clothing and equipment to be used in them, (e) measures to be followed by personnel when moving from one zone to another, (f) special first aid measures associated with exposure to the specific contaminants, and (g) emergency telephone numbers to secure qualified assistance within adequate response times. (2) The diving supervisor must ensure that (a) emergency breathing apparatus is provided for surface support personnel if there is risk of inhaling dangerous contaminants during the diving operations, (b) suitable apparel and equipment is worn by surface support personnel to prevent exposure to contaminants, (c) an appropriate means of safely decontaminating personnel is available at the dive site, (d) the dive site has the means and facilities to safely dispose of contaminated clothing and equipment, (e) all diving systems and equipment exposed to the contaminant are inspected for deterioration before each dive, (f) diaphragms of the first and second regulators and associated exhaust valves are inspected for deterioration before each dive, and (g) contaminated diving systems and equipment are not removed from the dive site unless authorized by the diving supervisor, and are not used in any subsequent diving operation unless found free of all contaminants. (3) A minimum crew of 4 workers must be present at a diving operation in a contaminated environment, one of whom must be a diver, one a diving supervisor, one a diver's tender, and one a standby diver. (4) The diving supervisor must ensure that scuba is not used for diving operations in a contaminated environment. (5) For dives in contaminated environments, the diving supervisor must ensure that divers use surface supply equipment including (a) a surface supply diving helmet designed and suitable for such work, (b) a totally enclosed diving suit, made of nonabsorbent material which mates to the helmet with a positive seal and locking device, (c) a two-way voice communication system, and (d) protective devices, where practicable, to minimize contaminant exposure to diving equipment. (6) For dives in contaminated environments, the following zones must be established on site: (a) a dedicated contamination reduction zone with suitable means to decontaminate personnel; (b) a dedicated support zone with suitable means to decontaminate or dispose of apparel and equipment; (c) a dedicated exclusion zone to handle the contaminant, accessible only to authorized and protected personnel. (7) For dives in contaminated environments, (a) workers entering the exclusion zone must wear appropriate personal protective equipment, (b) workers must enter and leave the exclusion zone only through the contamination reduction zone, and (c) no food, drink, or tobacco may be taken into the exclusion zone or the contamination zone. Live Boating General requirements 24.67 
 &nbsp; Live boating diving operations must be conducted only (a) during daylight hours, (b) in appropriate weather, current and sea conditions, (c) from a vessel with the necessary maneuverability to ensure the diver's safety, and which is under the control of a competent master, and (d) within the no-decompression limits. Procedures 24.68 
 &nbsp; The diving supervisor must ensure that (a) a procedure or device is in place that will prevent the diver's lifeline or umbilical bundle from becoming entangled in the boat's propulsion system, (b) the diver's tender is in a position of unobstructed view to the vessel master and the diving supervisor, (c) the propulsion system is disengaged when the diver enters or leaves the water, (d) the diver's umbilical or lifeline is monitored, hands on, by a diver's tender, (e) there is continuous voice communication, (f) no more than 70% of the diver's umbilical or lifeline is deployed during the diving operation, (g) the vessel master is competent to perform live boating operations and is under the direct control of the diving supervisor during diving operations, and (h) all dive crew members are familiar with their duties and responsibilities with respect to the diver's safety, and they may terminate the dive if the diver's safety is jeopardized. Fishing Operations General Requirements Application 24.69 
 &nbsp; (1) Sections 8.26 and 8.28 do not apply to a crewmember of a fishing vessel. (2) Section 8.29 does not apply to an owner or master of a fishing vessel. (3) Sections 8.27 and 8.30 do not apply to a personal flotation device (PFD) or lifejacket used on a fishing vessel. [en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 4.] Compliance with standards 24.70 
 &nbsp; All fishing vessels must (a) be maintained in seaworthy condition, and (b) be built in accordance with the applicable regulations under the Canada Shipping Act, 2001 . [am. B.C. Reg. 222/2021, App. C, s. 2.] Owner and master responsibilities 24.71 &nbsp; (1) An owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that all machinery and equipment on board a fishing vessel is capable of safely performing the functions for which it is used. (2) The owner must ensure that major modifications to a fishing vessel do not adversely affect the stability of the vessel. (3) The master of a fishing vessel must ensure that (a) machinery and equipment is properly maintained and functions safely during the voyage, and (b) any replacement equipment meets the requirements of this Part. Documentation 24.72 
 &nbsp; The owner of every fishing vessel must provide documentation on board, readily accessible to crewmembers, which describes (a) engine room instructions, (b) vessel characteristics, including stability, (c) the location and use of firefighting equipment, and (d) the location and use of emergency equipment, including radio equipment. Instruction 24.73 
 &nbsp; (1) Before the start of each fishing season, the master must ensure that each crewmember is instructed in the operational characteristics of the fishing vessel including (a) the location and use of safety equipment, engine room components and controls, (b) deck equipment and rigging, (c) navigation equipment and electronic aids, (d) fishing equipment and its use, including safe work practices for each fishery the vessel will be engaged in, (e) procedures for anchoring the vessel, (f) the location and use of emergency equipment, including firefighting and radio equipment, and (g) escape routes in the event of fire. (2) The master must ensure as far as is reasonably practicable, that the instruction required by subsection (1) results in each crewmember being able to apply the information as needed to protect the crewmember's health and safety. (3) New crewmembers joining the vessel must be instructed in accordance with the requirements of this section at the time that they join the vessel. Emergency procedures 24.74 
 &nbsp; (1) The master must establish procedures and assign responsibilities to each crewmember to cover all emergencies including (a) crewmember overboard, (b) fire on board, (c) flooding of the vessel, (d) abandoning ship, and (e) calling for help. (2) The master must ensure that drills are conducted at the start of each fishing season, when there is a change of crew, and at periodic intervals to ensure that crewmembers are familiar with emergency procedures. Crewmember responsibility 24.75 
 &nbsp; Crewmembers must take all reasonable precautions necessary to ensure the health and safety of themselves and other persons on board the fishing vessel. Vessel preparation 24.76 
 &nbsp; Before leaving on a voyage the master must ensure that the fishing vessel is capable of safely making the passage, due consideration being given to (a) the seaworthiness of the vessel, (b) the stowage and securing of all cargo, skiffs, equipment, fuel containers and supplies, (c) ballasting, and (d) present and forecast weather conditions. Reporting injuries 24.77 
 &nbsp; (1) Crewmembers must report all injuries to the master, without delay. (2) The master must report to the owner of the fishing vessel all injuries that required medical aid and record all injuries in the vessel log book. Unsafe conditions 24.78 
 &nbsp; (1) A crewmember who observes an unsafe or harmful condition or situation must immediately report it to the master. (2) The master must ensure that action is taken, without delay, to correct an unsafe or harmful condition or situation. Repealed 24.79 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 348/2003, s. 10.] Slipping and tripping hazards 24.80 
 &nbsp; (1) All work areas must be kept (a) clear of unnecessary obstructions, and (b) free of slipping and tripping hazards. (2) Decks must have non-skid surfaces except in those locations where a smooth deck is required for handling fish. (3) Tools and equipment must be securely stowed when not in use. Guarding of equipment 24.81 
 &nbsp; The owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that moving parts of power operated equipment are, where practicable, fitted with effective guards if such parts constitute a danger to crewmembers. Inspection of rigging 24.82 
 &nbsp; The master must ensure that all rigging is maintained and inspected regularly to ensure that it is able to safely carry out the work for which it was designed. Access and egress 24.83 
 &nbsp; Every portable ladder or gangway between a fishing vessel and shore, between vessels, or when used on board a vessel must be designed and rigged to provide safe access and egress. Protection from falling 24.84 
 &nbsp; (1) Crewmembers must be protected from falling overboard by means of grabrails, siderails, handrails, guardrails or personal fall protection equipment. (2) Crewmembers working aloft or on deck during adverse weather conditions must tie off to a lifeline to prevent falling. Deck openings 24.85 
 &nbsp; (1) Deck openings and hatches on a fishing vessel must be (a) equipped with an effective means of securing them, and (b) closed and secured when it is not essential to the fishing operation that they be open. (2) When deck openings and hatches are required to be open for ventilation or other purposes, they must be marked and guarded. De-energization 24.86 
 &nbsp; (1) The maintenance and repair of machinery or equipment on board a fishing vessel must only be carried out when the power source has been de-energized and effectively secured to prevent inadvertent startup. (2) If it is essential that equipment remain operational during the maintenance process, the master must establish a procedure to prevent injury from contact with moving or energized parts. (3) The main engine must be shut off whenever a diver is conducting work underwater in proximity to the vessel. Equipment control devices 24.87 
 &nbsp; (1) Winches, drums, capstans, and similar equipment on board a fishing vessel must have at least one master on/off control that is readily accessible on deck. (2) Drum pedals and other types of hold-to-run controls must not be bypassed or otherwise rendered ineffective. Braking devices 24.88 
 &nbsp; Winches and drums capable of freewheeling must be fitted with an effective braking device. Illumination 24.89 
 &nbsp; All work areas on board a fishing vessel must be sufficiently illuminated to enable work to be done safely. Ventilation 24.90 
 &nbsp; All crew spaces on fishing vessels must be provided with an adequate supply of fresh air either by passive or mechanical means. Propane installations 24.91 
 &nbsp; Propane, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and compressed natural gas (CNG) installations used for appliances on fishing vessels must be in conformity with the NFPA Standard 302-1989, Fire Protection Standard for Pleasure and Commercial Motor Craft . Galley requirements 24.92 
 &nbsp; (1) Galley stoves on fishing vessels must be fitted with rails or other means to restrain the movement of cooking utensils, and to prevent inadvertent contact by crewmembers. (2) Stove fuel supply tanks and lines must (a) be fitted with a shutoff valve at the tank, and (b) not be located directly above the stove. (3) Galley stoves must (a) be secured to prevent movement, and (b) have sufficient clearance to permit the effective cleanup of oil and grease. Requirements for sensors and alarms 24.93 
 &nbsp; (1) An owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that a heat sensor, connected to an alarm system, is installed (a) above the galley stove or near the stove pipe, and (b) in proximity to the engine exhaust. (2) The owner must ensure that a water level sensor, connected to an alarm system, is installed (a) in the machinery space bilges, and (b) in the shaft log or lazarette. (3) The owner must ensure that main engines are fitted with low oil pressure and high temperature sensors connected to an alarm system. (4) The owner must ensure that a sensor and alarm system is installed if the Board considers this necessary to detect leaks of potentially explosive fuel used in engines or appliances. (5) The owner must ensure that an audible marine grade carbon monoxide sensor, connected to an alarm system where practicable, is installed in crew quarters. [am. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 13.] Repealed 24.94- 24.95 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 312/2003, App. D, s. 26.] Protection against cold 24.96 
 &nbsp; Crewmembers working in freezers must wear clothing, including headgear, footwear and gloves, that provides adequate protection against cold. When crewmember must wear a personal flotation device (PFD) or lifejacket 24.96.1 
 &nbsp; A crewmember must wear a personal flotation device (PFD) or lifejacket on a fishing vessel if the crewmember is (a) on board the fishing vessel, in the case of a fishing vessel that has no deck or deck structure, or (b) on the deck or in the cockpit of the fishing vessel, in the case of a fishing vessel that has a deck or deck structure. [en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 5.] Crewmember working alone 24.96.2 
 &nbsp; If a crewmember is working alone on a fishing vessel, the crewmember must wear a lifejacket that (a) has a minimum buoyancy of 93 N (21 lbs), and (b) is inherently buoyant or automatically inflatable. [en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 5.] Record of inspection and maintenance 24.96.3 
 &nbsp; If crewmembers use inflatable personal flotation devices (PFDs) or automatically inflatable lifejackets on a fishing vessel, the owner or the master must keep a record of all inspections made and maintenance performed on those PFDs or automatically inflatable lifejackets. [en. B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 5.] Crewmember overboard 24.97 
 &nbsp; (1) Every fishing vessel must carry, for each crewmember, one immersion suit meeting standards acceptable to the Board. (2) The master of a vessel must ensure that there is suitable equipment on board and that procedures have been developed which will enable the prompt recovery of a crewmember overboard. Davits 24.98 
 &nbsp; The owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that all moveable davits are fitted with an effective locking device. Communication 24.99 
 &nbsp; The master must ensure that effective procedures are developed to communicate between the bridge and all work areas on the vessel. Ozone generators 24.100 
 &nbsp; The owner of a fishing vessel must ensure that ozone generating equipment is installed and operated in accordance with standards acceptable to the Board. Loading and offloading 24.101 
 &nbsp; The master of a fishing vessel carrying fish or cargo must establish safe procedures for the loading and offloading of fish and cargo. Work areas and operations 24.102 
 &nbsp; All work areas must be arranged and operations organized to minimize the potential for injury to crewmembers, including strains and sprains. Proper lifting 24.103 
 &nbsp; The master must ensure that crewmembers are instructed in and use proper lifting techniques. Requirements for Specific Fishing Operations Gillnetting Salmon Drums 24.104 
 &nbsp; The owner of a gillnet vessel must ensure that drums are fitted with (a) an effective ratchet device for picking up the net under heavy strain, (b) an effective brake to maintain control when setting out the net, and (c) a hold-to-run control. [am. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 14.] Pin rollers 24.105 
 &nbsp; (1) The owner must ensure that pin rollers are of a design to prevent their inadvertent lifting. (2) The master must ensure that pin rollers are maintained to prevent their inadvertent lifting. Herring Work areas and safeguarding 24.106 
 &nbsp; (1) Work areas on herring skiffs and punts must be arranged to prevent contact with moving equipment such as beaters and live rollers. (2) The owner of a herring gillnet vessel must ensure that drums are fitted with (a) an effective ratchet device for picking up the net under heavy strain and an effective brake to maintain control when setting out the net, and (b) a hold-to-run control or other equally effective safeguard to stop the drums if a worker becomes entangled in the net or lines being wound in by the drum. [en. B.C. Reg. 243/2006, s. 15.] Fouled propellers 24.107 
 &nbsp; The master of a herring skiff or punt must develop safe work procedures to direct crewmembers in how to clear fouled propellers. Hauling net anchors 24.108 
 &nbsp; The owner must ensure that, when required by fishing conditions, herring skiffs and punts are fitted with mechanical means for hauling net anchors. Brailers 24.109 
 &nbsp; Crewmembers must keep clear of brailers when unloading herring. Towing skiffs 24.110 
 &nbsp; The master of a fishing vessel that will tow a skiff or punt must develop safe procedures for towing in all weather conditions including (a) a means of self bailing, (b) the use of tow line shock absorbers, and (c) the use of drogue devices to prevent sheering and overtaking. Handlining Gloves 24.111 
 &nbsp; Crewmembers must wear hand protection acceptable to the Board when handlining. Longlining Setting procedures 24.112 
 &nbsp; The master must establish safe procedures for setting gear to prevent crewmembers being caught by hooks and other gear. Knives 24.113 
 &nbsp; Each setting and hauling station must be equipped with a knife capable of cutting the gear. Guarding 24.114 
 &nbsp; Drums and automated systems using longlines with hooks attached must be guarded or shielded to prevent inadvertent contact with hooks. Hoisting device 24.115 
 &nbsp; If there is a potential for injury to crewmembers, a hoisting device must be provided and used to lift large fish. Seining General Requirements Hairpins and ringstrippers 24.116 
 &nbsp; (1) Seiners built after January 1, 1995 must be fitted with ringstrippers. (2) The owner of a seiner must ensure that hairpins or ringstrippers on the vessel are designed and constructed so that crewmembers will not be endangered by their use. (3) The master of a seiner must, if applicable, develop safe hairpin or ringstripper operating procedures which include (a) consideration of sea and tide conditions, (b) crew coordination, (c) communication, (d) spooling gear, (e) drumming, and (f) hoisting and securing. Spooling gear 24.117 
 &nbsp; (1) The owner of a seiner must ensure that pursing winches and leads are positioned to permit proper spooling. (2) Crewmembers must keep clear of the stern spooling gear while it is in operation. Lifting the bag 24.118 
 &nbsp; (1) Whenever drawing the bag over the stern presents a risk of equipment failure or vessel instability, alternate procedures such as splitting the lift or brailing must be developed and used. (2) Crewmembers must stay clear of the bag when it is brought over the stern roller. Drum operation 24.119 
 &nbsp; Crewmembers operating the drum must not leave the controls while the drum is turning. Brailing 24.120 
 &nbsp; The master of a seiner carrying a brailer must ensure that crewmembers are instructed in safe brailing procedures. Purse rings 24.121 
 &nbsp; Purse rings on all seine nets must be secured to the middle of the ring strap to prevent rings from falling when fleeting the net through the power block. Pumps 24.122 
 &nbsp; (1) The owner of a seiner carrying pumping gear must ensure that it is capable of pumping fish from the bottom of the bunt while on a set. (2) If 2 or more fishing vessels are working in a team, the pumping gear may be shared between the vessels. Drying up 24.123 
 &nbsp; The master of a seiner must establish a safe drying up procedure which includes (a) communication on deck and between vessels, (b) coordination of activities, (c) securing the net, (d) hoisting fleets, and (e) the means of jettisoning the set should the vessel become endangered. Power blocks 24.124 
 &nbsp; (1) Power block haul lines must be minimum 25 mm (1 in) diameter double braid nylon or equivalent. (2) The master must ensure that power block haul lines are inspected frequently and maintained in safe condition. (3) Haul lines must be shackled to the power block. (4) A power block must be equipped with an effective safety line when suspended above the deck. Seine Skiffs Communication 24.125 
 &nbsp; The master of a seiner must ensure there is an effective means of communication between the vessel and the skiff during towing operations. Skiff design 24.126 
 &nbsp; (1) Decks and floors of skiffs must be non-skid. (2) Rails and sides of skiffs must be maintained free of protrusions that could snag the net. Equipment stowage 24.127 
 &nbsp; Lines and other necessary equipment in skiffs must be securely stowed to prevent slipping and tripping. Repealed 24.128 
 &nbsp; Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 14/2019, App. E, s. 6.] Engine exhaust 24.129 
 &nbsp; The owner must ensure that the exhaust system for an engine in a powered skiff (a) directs the exhaust away from crewmembers, and (b) is shielded to prevent burns. Capsize protection 24.130 
 &nbsp; (1) Towposts in skiffs must be designed and installed to minimize the potential for capsizing. (2) Power skiffs must be operated in a manner that eliminates the danger of capsizing from backlash in the net. Beachline Operations Instruction 24.131 
 &nbsp; (1) The master of a salmon seiner must ensure that only trained and adequately supervised crewmembers are permitted to tie up to the beach during fishing operations. (2) The training required in subsection (1) includes instruction in (a) proper knots, (b) assessing the tie-up, (c) beachline straps, (d) communication, (e) tying and untying procedures, and (f) cutting the strap. Tie-up sites 24.132 
 &nbsp; Beach tie-up sites must be selected with due regard for the health and safety of crewmembers, consideration being given to terrain, wind and sea conditions. Personal protective equipment 24.133 
 &nbsp; Crewmembers engaged in beach tie-ups must (a) wear appropriate gloves and footwear meeting the requirements of the Board, and (b) carry a knife capable of cutting the beachline or strap. Night operations 24.134 
 &nbsp; The master of a salmon seiner must not conduct beach operations during darkness unless (a) crewmembers are properly trained in night-time procedures, (b) crewmembers in the skiff wear high visibility apparel, (c) the vessel has the capability of adequately illuminating the work area, and (d) an effective means of communication is established between the skiff and the seiner. Trap Fishing Master's responsibility 24.135 
 &nbsp; The master must ensure that the stability of the fishing vessel is not compromised by (a) the number of traps loaded on the vessel, and (b) the manner in which the traps are loaded. Securing traps 24.136 
 &nbsp; Traps must be secured to prevent inadvertent swinging or other movement during setting and hauling. Lifelines 24.137 
 &nbsp; Crewmembers working on the stern setting black cod traps must be tied off with a safety belt or harness, and lifeline, both meeting standards acceptable to the Board. Trawling Safe work procedures 24.138 
 &nbsp; (1) The master must establish safe work procedures for shooting and hauling trawls. (2) When shooting the trawl, crewmembers must stay clear of the net once the cod end is overboard. (3) When hooking up and unhooking trawl doors on the davits, crewmembers must stay clear of pinch points. (4) The master must establish a safe fleeting procedure. Securing areas and equipment 24.139 
 &nbsp; (1) Open stern ramps must be roped off or otherwise guarded except when the area must be open for trawling operations. (2) Beams must be secured to prevent inadvertent movement when attaching or detaching plumb staffs. (3) Trawl doors and otter boards must be secured to davits when not in use. (4) Shrimp and fish boxes must be secured to prevent inadvertent movement. Splitting straps 24.140 
 &nbsp; All trawl cod ends must be fitted with splitting straps. Trolling Trolling poles 24.141 
 &nbsp; Trolling poles and stabilizer poles must be fitted with safety straps or other devices to limit their downward travel and to lock them in the down position. Gurdy brakes 24.142 
 &nbsp; Gurdy braking devices must be maintained in good working order. Cockpit covers 24.143 
 &nbsp; Cockpits must be equipped with covers and an adequate means to secure them in adverse weather. </a